Copyright © 2021 by The Board of Trustees of the Leland Stanford Junior University on behalf of Hasso Plattner Institute of Design Illustrations copyright © 2021 by Michael Hirshon
All rights reserved. Published in the United States by Ten Speed Press, an imprint of Random House, a division of Penguin Random House LLC, New York. www.tenspeed.com
Ten Speed Press and the Ten Speed Press colophon are registered trademarks of Penguin Random House LLC.
The following photographs are used with permission: this page courtesy of AP Photo/Rodrigo Abd, this page (top and center) courtesy of Adobe Stock, this page (bottom) courtesy of Adobe Stock/Markus Mainka, and this page courtesy of Charlotte Burgess-Auburn.
Library of Congress Control Number: 2021936405
Trade Paperback ISBN9781984858160 Ebook ISBN9781984858177
Acquiring editor: Hannah Rahill | Project editor: Julie Bennett Print designer: Annie Marino | Art director: Kelly Booth Print production designers: Mari Gill and Faith Hague Print production and prepress color manager: Jane Chinn Copyeditor: Kristi Hein | Proofreader: Lisa D. Brousseau | Indexer: Ken DellaPenta Publicists: Jana Branson and David Hawk | Marketers: Windy Dorresteyn and Daniel Wikey d.school creative team: Charlotte Burgess-Auburn, Scott Doorley, and Nariman (Nadia) Gathers Research: Amalia Rothschild-Keita Ebook production manager: Eric Sailer

rhid_prh_5.7.1_c0_r0

Contents
Foreword by David M. Kelley Introduction
Getting Started The Assignments: Find Your Path
1 Blind Contour Bookend 2 How to Talk to Strangers 3 The Dérive 4 Handle with Care 5 Immersion for Insight 6 Shadowing 7 Fundamentals 8 A Seeing Exercise 9 Talkers & Listeners 10 The Wordless Conversation 11 Favorite Warm-Up Sequence 12 Interview Essentials 13 Party Park Parkway 14 Maturity, Muscle, Variety 15 Empathy in Motion 16 What's in Your Fridge? 17 Expert Eyes

The Journey from Not Knowing to Knowing
18 Learning How You Learn 19 Identify, Acknowledge, Challenge 20 Practicing Metaphors 21 Direct Your Curiosity 22 Remember That Time... 23 The Monsoon Challenge 24 ABC Sketching 25 Reflections & Revelations 26 The Girl on a Chair 27 How We Are 28 Bisociation 29 The Secret Handshake 30 Map the Design Space 31 Rock Paper Scissors Tournament 32 First Date, Worst Date 33 The Solution Already Exists 34 How Are You Doing, Really?
Widening Your Lens
35 Fresh Eyes Sketching 36 Unpacking Exercises 37 Frame & Concept 38 Making Morning Coffee 39 Five Chairs 40 The Hundred-Foot Journey Map 41 Everyone Designs 42 Protobot 43 Experts/Assumptions 44 Stakeholder Mapping 45 The Banana Challenge 46 Micro-Mindfulness Exercises

47 A Day in the Life
The Feeling of Learning
48 Tether 49 Solutions Tic-Tac-Toe 50 A Briefcase Viewpoint 51 Instant Replay 52 Tell Your Granddad 53 Distribution Prototyping 54 When to Change Your Mind 55 Embodied Prototyping 56 The Test of Silence 57 How to Give Feedback 58 What? So What? Now What? 59 High Fidelity, Low Resolution
Productive Struggle
60 I Like, I Wish 61 What Went Down 62 Your Inner Ethicist 63 The Futures Wheel 64 Units of Energy Critique 65 More Brave People 66 Build a Bot 67 Designing Tools for Teams 68 This Assignment Is a Surprise 69 The Final Final 70 Personal Project 71 Learning Journey Maps

Putting It All Together
72 The Haircut 73 The Ramen Project 74 Family Evening Experience 75 Thirty-Million-Word Gap 76 Organ Donation Experience 77 Stanford Service Corps 78 Post-Disaster Finance 79 Taking Responsibility 80 Scope Your Own Challenge 81 I Used to Think...& Now I Think
Creative Acts: Behind the Scenes The Haircut: A Design Challenge Index

Throughout my thirty-plus years at Stanford, there's always been something special about working with the students at the d.school. They arrive thinking that we're going to fill them with ideas, but what really happens is they get a glimpse of their own ingenuity and resilience. We get to be there at the moment when they realize their own potential, and I feel lucky to be a part of it.
Yet these kinds of realizations don't come from just understanding an idea--they come through the experience of trying, and failing, and trying again. One of my big regrets is that it's hard to deliver these moments to people who aren't able to take our classes and workshops in person. But this book does the trick. It is chock-full of recipes for these special moments. We call them creative acts, and like any good recipe, the real magic is not in the instructions on the page but rather in putting those instructions into action.
I tell my students that when it comes to creative work, exactly what their creative practice looks like is less important than the fact that they have one to begin with. Back in the day, we used to call this being "mindful of process." Yes, the product is important, but how to get there deserves at least as much attention, if not more. Creative Acts for Curious People is all about how to get there.
Creative work involves making things seem tangible and real, but what you really take with you to the next challenge or job is not what gets made, but the way to make it, and the understanding of how to do it again. Like the d.school itself, this book contains as many how-tos as there are people who contributed their knowledge to its pages. There's a lot of wisdom here, from d.school stalwarts to a new generation of teachers and designers of whom I couldn't be more proud.

And I can't think of a better guide to lead you through these exercises. Sarah has gathered some of the most fascinating, unique, and useful assignments from the transformative classes of the d.school's first decade and a half. In our world, she's famous for giving students that special--and sometimes difficult--nudge that pushes them to discover the creative confidence and potential they have inside but have yet to discover. She has a wonderful knack for seeing deep into things to pull out the kernel that gives them meaning and makes them sing. Each of these many assignments and the six essays sprinkled throughout are framed with a bit of Sarah's magic, and I am excited to see what creative acts emerge-- not just for the curious, but for everybody.
David M. Kelley Stanford, California February 10, 2021

As a child I was obsessed with Peter Pan. I reread my
treasured clothbound volume until the cover frayed. And despite the cold Philadelphia winters, I often kept the window cracked open at night; if Peter chose to alight on my sill, he'd have no trouble getting in. To me, Peter represented all that was fearless and brilliant about kids. He sang out a flight plan to a place in my imagination ("second star to the right and straight on 'til morning") that celebrated imagination itself and blurred the line between pretend and reality. Along with Wendy, Peter's band of Lost Boys imagined their own version of society into existence simply by acting it out--an idea that has never left me.
Another important teacher of mine was Fred Rogers, with whom I visited every day via public television. A full-fledged adult (though his trademark sneakers slyly suggested otherwise), he knew that kids needed a safe place in their minds to explore their feelings or talk out the difference between right and wrong. No part of Mister Rogers' Neighborhood was fast-paced, but I found it thrilling when Trolley clanged and it was time to follow it down the tracks to the Neighborhood of Make-Believe.
Now, many decades later, every time I arrive at work I walk into a place that feels to many people like it exists in one of these imaginary worlds.
At the Stanford d.school, we've created an environment where normal rules are suspended and we constantly use our imaginations. Our purpose is to help everyone unlock their creative abilities. We cook up special ways for people to interact with each other. We make a lot of time for feelings, and we act like that's no different than doing any other kind of work. We speak a language of encouragement. We're hard on work but soft on people, and we don't confuse kindness with weakness. We try things out before we

know exactly what will happen, and then we spend time thinking and talking about what, exactly, just happened. Our furniture rolls around.
Our way of being and working contains a standing invitation to everyone to join us. Almost without exception, we can convince you to come up with a secret handshake at a moment's notice. We know how to engage a room of adults in a fierce game of Rock Paper Scissors played at top volume. We can give you a bin filled with art supplies and teach you to make something world-changing with them. We can show you how to stop self-censoring your most interesting ideas.
With these methods, we help thousands of people each year expand their creative abilities and apply them to the world. And then those thousands of people help thousands of others do the same. What is this shared, waking daydream? It's our belief that more creative, meaningful work emerges when we help each other undo the mindsets that limit us and instead hold each other up as creative individuals. At the d.school we make the choice to approach our work this way every day. You can, too.
Although the d.school's methods are full of joy, I constructed a significant portion of this book during a sad and sobering year. At times the gap between my source material and the world around me felt wide. Our approach to creative work is amplified by collaboration; how does that evolve when people cannot physically come together? Design doesn't yet have a wide repertoire of tools to acknowledge and fight systemic racism; but if we claim to be human-centered, it must. Since our mission is to democratize access to design, how do we navigate a fracturing, polarized world? When the land is on fire, can nurturing more creative humans bring water?
Design offers methods not for a changed world, but an everchanging one. In the face of current challenges­those here today

and those yet to come­we all need ways to prepare to act even when we are uncertain. We'll always need to find our way to our reservoir of creative abilities, and figure out how to apply those abilities to each situation.
This book contains a wide range of activities developed and taught at the d.school, plus a few that were created elsewhere by members of the extended d.school family. Many terrific design toolkits and templates are widely available these days; the goal of this guide is to offer you a taste of the kinds of experiential journeys we take at the d.school across a variety of subjects. It gives you the opportunity to experience what it feels like and looks like to learn at the d.school, which you can apply to many different contexts. The skills you will develop are fundamental for stretching your creative abilities: things like becoming aware of your inner critic, bonding quickly with new creative collaborators, and engaging people intentionally to learn more about their lives and spark new ideas.
These experiences, called "assignments," form the main part of this book. They follow an arc similar to what you'd experience in a course at the d.school, though there are many more here than you could ever fit into one class. Some assignments will take twenty minutes or an hour, and others could take weeks, depending on how deep you want to go. Among the assignments you'll also find a few essays that share insights we've gained by designing these kinds of learning experiences. Knowing more about how they work will help you to get even more out of them and to adapt them to your context.
Throughout the book I refer to the concept of design, a word that means different things to different people. The d.school is part of a global shift: from a world where designers have a very specific, narrow mandate predicated on the idea of design being mainly about aesthetic finishing to a world where design plays a broader role in society. One aspect of this shift in design has to do with

inclusiveness: we fundamentally believe that everyone is creative and everyone can use design to improve the world around them. This aspirational way of thinking about design was described by the Hungarian painter László Moholy-Nagy in the 1940s: "Designing is not a profession but an attitude...[it should be] transformed from the notion of a specialist function into a generally valid attitude of resourcefulness and inventiveness." The first section in this book is an illustrated story of what this broad definition of design can look like. It follows a real group of our students through the ups and downs of using design tools and mindsets to address a challenge at a hospital in India.
Another important implication of the expanding role of design is the responsibility that comes with taking that attitude of inventiveness and creating products, experiences, and systems that change the world around you. When you design, you shape the world for others, whether you're redesigning the evening routine for your family or an entire public health system. Many of the assignments in this book are about cultivating deeper awareness of how you work so you can be a thoughtful citizen creator.
The d.school approach prepares you to take on any challenge in life or work without knowing exactly how to do it before you do it. The world is changing too quickly to learn everything you need to know about life while you're in school. Knowing how to learn is the fundamental ability you need to cultivate in order to thrive in the twenty-first century. Thinking and learning like a designer is tremendously powerful, and the assignments here will keep you learning indefinitely.
Many of these assignments may seem fantastical, but they are actually both practical and useful. Keep this in mind when you encounter The Banana Challenge (this page), the zombie apocalypse prep in Favorite Warm-Up Sequence (this page), and more. These exercises embody playful yet rigorous ideas, and they'll help you

begin to act your way into a new creative reality. It's no wonder that some of our ideas sound strange when encountered outside of the d.school, since it is an alternate universe compared to many organizations and environments. When people grow up and stop believing, many end up creating schools and jobs and social norms that constrain creative thinking and action.
We are fortunate to have carved out this special place where we can set the conditions for creativity to emerge right in the heart of a world-class research university. It's both a gift and a challenge: our methods build on deep knowledge and the spirit of scientific and technological discovery that pervades Stanford's campus. We also challenge the norms and orthodoxies of an institution with 125 years of history, 16,000 driven students, and 2,200 staggeringly accomplished faculty.
The d.school's success is a great argument for welcoming a little oddness into your midst from time to time, a provocation to explore alternative ways of producing new ideas. Our approach to design brings productive, creative tensions: an emphasis on humanness in a time of technological prowess; an embrace of naive, unprejudiced questions in a sector that specializes in expert answers; and a jostling of hierarchy and status to break down barriers across fields and amplify collaboration between unexpected allies.
When we use, teach, and share our ways of learning and working, extraordinary ideas appear. When we practice certain intentional behaviors, they quickly become more natural. As you make your way through these assignments, I hope you also feel the sheer joy that comes from working in this more human, more connected, and, yes, sometimes more childlike way.
Being childlike has helped d.schoolers pursue wide-ranging endeavors. They've designed treatments and resources to help children born with clubfoot avert a lifetime of stigma and disability,

launched flourishing creative hubs in the heart of countries undergoing political repression, found new ways to unite journalists and technologists, started businesses that created jobs and economic value, and brought humanity and efficiency to the heart of government bureaucracy. They've tackled the esoteric (redesigning how lawyers conduct research), the environmental (solar lighting to give more than a hundred million people around the world an affordable alternative to carbon-polluting kerosene lamps), and the economic (storytelling and media services that help locally owned businesses thrive across the United States).
These outcomes are impressive, as are the innovations that propelled them. Even more amazing: the people behind these solutions all started as beginners, with little or no familiarity with design or creative collaboration. By trying and learning these methods, they found truly novel ways to look at an opportunity. That is the d.school's special contribution: we help open the door to people who have not previously seen themselves as working in a creative field.
But success is never about a single moment of insight. These examples are good ones because the d.school's founders spent time in an environment that encouraged their natural creative abilities to emerge and because they didn't stop practicing those learned behaviors after they graduated. They began to believe in and act their way toward a different future.
For some of us this space is physical, and we call it the d.school. But everyone can open a d.school in their own mind.
I hope this book helps you do just that. By trying one new assignment that lets you notice an old pattern in your behavior. By challenging a habit of thought that's getting in your way. By helping you find a new practice that fuels your imagination. By supporting you as you celebrate and lift up the inventiveness and

resourcefulness of the people you lead, teach, or work among. This book isn't just for people on the path toward becoming a professional designer; it will help anyone bring design principles and practices into any profession or endeavor.
Like our students, you might be working on sprawling, complex topics and aspire to push your skills to the same places they do. You might be tackling focused projects much closer to home that matter to you, your family, or your community. Whatever the context, our goal is to help you come out of each assignment you try knowing that you can do a little bit more, a little bit better than you did before.
And you're in charge of how you do that: none of these assignments has to be used exactly as written. Each is meant to be tinkered with, adapted, and remixed. Skip around the book, try something new, let it rest, and then take it off the shelf for a browse when you need some fresh inspiration.
The experience of doing these assignments is the value you will take away. The emphasis is not on mastering tools or technique, although you'll encounter a few. A tool or a practice by itself is just a way to start: it can eventually be overused, misused, or forgotten. But the mindset or approach you learn and the self-awareness you cultivate are both flexible and durable. These assignments are just a bit of new input for you to react to. With a little creative prompting and structure, you can summon new perspectives from within that might not have emerged otherwise.
I hope to meet you in your d.school sometime soon. It's not too hard to imagine.

Think about the last time you tried to change, fix,
design, or solve a problem in your life and you really didn't know what the outcome would be. Maybe it was a challenge you took on following a promotion at work, the search for an apartment in a new city, or an effort to organize your neighbors to deal with a block-wide problem. You might have felt a mix of things--excitement, commitment, and nervousness--all at the same time. You might have been secure in your skills and prepared a creative approach, yet still felt like a beginner. This is really common: when faced with an open-ended challenge that doesn't have one fixed, right solution, we can all feel like beginners. And it's true--we are inexpert in that particular problem. However, if we have practiced how to tackle an open-ended situation and learned how to handle all of the complicated feelings that arise while doing so, we can improvise our way through any challenge.
This is a story about a group of beginners facing a large, messy, creative challenge and bringing all they had to it. It's a story about a big opportunity hiding in plain sight and about finding a signal within a noisy, complex system by listening to the clarion call of human suffering and fear.
It's about resilience, inventiveness, improvisation, humility, and many leaps of faith.
It's also a story about Edith Elliot, Katy Ashe, Shahed Alam, and Jessie Liu, four graduate students pursuing degrees in international policy, civil and environmental engineering, and medicine. Their lives took an unexpected turn when they met during a d.school class called Design for Extreme Affordability. As part of the class, they began to work with the Narayana Health Hospital chain of cardiac care centers founded by a charismatic surgeon, Dr. Devi Prasad Shetty, based in Bangalore, India. The team was asked to travel to

India, find opportunities, and design solutions to improve the patient flow in order to help the hospital get closer to its mission to deliver high-quality, low-cost care on a wide scale.
When they started, the team had a lot of support and a willing partner, and they had already experienced a few of the assignments included in this book, specifically The Monsoon Challenge (this page); I Like, I Wish (this page); and Stanford Service Corps (this page). But their biggest advantage was that they went into the situation without being fixed on the exact problem they would tackle. What the students thought might be the need and what they actually found turned out to be two very different things. No matter your skill level or the scope of the challenges you take on, approaching the unknown with the spirit and tools of inquiry will help you uncover bigger and better opportunities than you could imagine beforehand.
That's just how design works. It can take you on a journey to learn not just how to solve a problem, but also how to identify what problem might be so worth solving that you reorganize your life around the endeavor.

That's where we hope this story ends, anyway, but that's not where it begins. Like so many great tales, this story starts with a miscommunication.

