www.it-ebooks.info

www.it-ebooks.info

Praise for Lean UX
"Customer Development and Lean Startup changed the way businesses are built, because even the smartest teams can't predict market and user behavior. This book brings both methodologies to UX so you can build cheaper, faster, and--most importantly--better experiences."
Alex Osterwalder--Author and Entrepreneur; Cofounder, Business Model Foundry GmbH
"Many UX designers I know fear the words `Agile' or `Lean' out of fear that they threaten their creative process and lower the quality standards of their work. But with more and more software development teams adopting these methodologies, it's important that the UX team embrace this change and find ways to use the system to its advantage. In this book, Jeff Gothelf and Josh Seiden explain what Lean UX is, why you should practice it, and how it can help you and your team build better products (which is what it's all about, right?). Using these principles, the RunKeeper team has broken down the traditional barriers between engineering and UX and has made everyone responsible for creating an incredible user experience."
Tom Boates--VP, User Experience, RunKeeper
"There is a revolution afoot. It is the move away from big design up front and isolated, specialized teams throwing documents over the wall to each other. Applying the principles of Lean startups, Jeff and Josh lay out the principles of Lean UX, which can literally transform the way you bring experiences to life. I have firsthand experience applying their wisdom and am excited about taking Agile to the next level. Get this book. But most importantly, put this book into practice."
Bill Scott--Sr. Director, User Interface Engineering, PayPal, Inc.
www.it-ebooks.info

"If you're looking to deliver great experiences with Agile development methods, get this book! Jeff and Josh share proven methods for creative ideation, planning, and problem-solving without heavy deliverable baggage."
Christian Crumlish--Director of Product, CloudOn
"While there is no question that great product teams must put user experience design front-and-center, many teams have struggled to reconcile the techniques and objectives of user experience design with the rhythm and pace of modern Agile development teams. Lean UX is the collection of techniques and mindset that I advocate to modern product teams that know they need the benefits of both."
Marty Cagan--Founder, Silicon Valley Product Group; Former SVP Product and Design, eBay
"Jeff and Josh's passion for getting UX (and really all of product development) right comes across powerfully in this detailed yet eminently readable book. The case studies, examples, and research serve to highlight the power of building a Lean UX process, and there's a great deal of actionable advice taken from these. I'm ordering a copy for everyone on our design, UX, and product teams at Moz."
Rand Fishkin--CEO and Cofounder, Moz
"A fantastic combination of case studies and practical advice that your team can use today. Whether you're at a startup or a Fortune 500 company, this book will change the way you build products."
Laura Klein--Principal, Users Know
"Lean UX provides a prescriptive framework for how to build better products, moving design away from pixel perfection for the sake of it, toward iterative learning, smarter effort, and outcome-based results. Product managers, business owners, and startup employees--along with designers--can benefit greatly from Lean UX."
Ben Yoskovitz--VP Product, GoInstant
www.it-ebooks.info

Lean UX
Applying Lean Principles to Improve User Experience
Jeff Gothelf
Josh Seiden, editor
Beijing ·Cambridge·Farnham·Köln·Sebastopol·Tokyo
www.it-ebooks.info

Lean UX by Jeff Gothelf
Copyright © 2013 Jeff Gothelf. All rights reserved. Printed in the United States of America.
Published by O'Reilly Media, Inc., 1005 Gravenstein Highway North, Sebastopol, CA 95472.
O'Reilly books may be purchased for educational, business, or sales promotional use. Online editions are also available for most titles (http://my.safaribooksonline.com). For more information, contact our corporate/institutional sales department: (800) 998-9938 or corporate@oreilly.com.

Acquisitions Editor: Mary Treseler Developmental Editor: Josh Seiden Production Editor: Holly Bauer Copyeditor: Nancy Kotary Proofreader: Jilly Gagnon

Indexer: Lucie Haskins Compositor: Holly Bauer Cover Designer: Mark Paglietti Interior Designer: Ron Bilodeau Illustrator: Kara Ebrahim

March 2013: First Edition.

Revision History for the First Edition: 2013-02-08 First release
See http://oreilly.com/catalog/errata.csp?isbn=0636920021827 for release details.

Nutshell Handbook, the Nutshell Handbook logo, and the O'Reilly logo are registered trademarks of O'Reilly Media, Inc. Lean UX and related trade dress are trademarks of O'Reilly Media, Inc.
Many of the designations used by manufacturers and sellers to distinguish their products are claimed as trademarks. Where those designations appear in this book, and O'Reilly Media, Inc., was aware of a trademark claim, the designations have been printed in caps or initial caps.
Although the publisher and author have used reasonable care in preparing this book, the information it contains is distributed "as is" and without warranties of any kind. This book is not intended as legal or financial advice, and not all of the recommendations may be suitable for your situation. Professional legal and financial advisors should be consulted, as needed. Neither the publisher nor the author shall be liable for any costs, expenses, or damages resulting from use of or reliance on the information contained in this book.

ISBN: 978-1-449-31165-0 [CW]

www.it-ebooks.info

For Carrie, Grace, and Sophie www.it-ebooks.info

www.it-ebooks.info

Contents
Foreword.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . IX Preface.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . XIII
Section I: Introduction and Principles
Chapter 1 Why Lean UX?. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 3 Chapter 2 Principles. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 5
Section II: Process
Chapter 3 Vision, Framing, and Outcomes .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 17 Chapter 4 Collaborative Design.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 33 Chapter 5 MVPs and Experiments.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 55 Chapter 6 Feedback and Research .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 73
VII
www.it-ebooks.info

Section III: Making It Work
Chapter 7 Integrating Lean UX and Agile.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 95 Chapter 8 Making Organizational Shifts. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 109
Index .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 125

VIII

Contents

www.it-ebooks.info

Foreword
In reading Lean UX, you're about to embark on a tour of a new way of working. For those of us steeped in traditional management techniques, it may seem a little disorienting. I sometimes like to imagine what it would be like to have a birds-eye view of the typical modern corporation. From on high, you could examine each silo of functional excellence one at a time. See them in your mind's eye: Marketing, Operations, Manufacturing, IT, Engineering, Design, and on and on in a tidy row of crisp, well-run silos. Let's imagine you reached down to grab one of these silos and popped its top off to see inside. What would you see? This being a modern company, you'd see each silo designed for maximum efficiency. To achieve this efficiency, you'd likely find a highly iterative, customer-centric approach to problem solving. In Manufacturing, you'd encounter traditional lean thinking. In Engineering or IT, perhaps some variation on agile development. In Marketing, customer development. In Operations, DevOps. And of course in Design, the latest in design thinking, interaction design, and user research techniques. Zooming back out to our high perch, we might be forgiven for thinking "This company uses a variety of rigorous, hypothesis-driven, customercentric, and iterative methodologies. Surely, it must be an extremely agile company, capable of reacting quickly to changes in market conditions and continuously innovating!" But those of us who work in modern companies know how far this is from the truth.
IX
www.it-ebooks.info

How is it possible that our departmental silos are operating with agility, but our companies are hopelessly rigid and slow? From our far-off vantage point, we have missed something essential. Although our departments may value agility, the interconnections between them are still mired in an antiquated industrial past.
Consider just one example, which I hope will sound familiar. A company decides it must innovate to survive. It commissions a design team (either inhouse or external) to investigate the future of its industry and recommend innovative new products that could secure its future. A period of great excitement commences. Customers are interviewed, observed, analyzed. Experiments, surveys, focus groups, prototypes and smoke tests follow one after the other. Concepts are rapidly conceived, tested, rejected, and refined.
And what happens at the end of this process? The designers proudly present--and the businesses enthusiastically celebrates--a massive specification document with their findings and recommendations. The iteration, experimentation, and discovery ceases. Now engineering is called upon to execute this plan. And although the engineering process may be agile, the specification document is rigidly fixed. What happens if the engineers discover that the specification was unworkable or even slightly flawed? What if the concepts worked great in the lab but have no commercial appeal? What if market conditions have changed since the original "learning" took place?
I once spoke to a company who had commissioned--at terrible expense--a multi-year study of their industry. The result was an impressive "view of the future" display custom-built into their corporate headquarters. Inside this room, you could see an extrapolation of what the next 10 years would look like in their industry, complete with working demos of futuristic product concepts. You can guess what happened over the succeeding 10 years: absolutely nothing. The company rotated hundreds or thousands of executives, managers, and workers through this glimpse of the future. And in fact, 10 years later, the room no longer looks futuristic. Against all odds, its forecasts turned out to be largely accurate. And yet, the company had failed to commercialize even one of the recommendations in the attendant specification document. So I asked the company what they planned to do next; they told me they were going back to the original designers and asking them to forecast the next 10 years! The company blamed their engineers and managers for their failure to commercialize, not the designers.
When I tell this story to nondesigners, they are horrified and want to convince me that it is the fancy design firm who is to blame. When I tell it to senior executives--in both large companies and startups alike--they

X

Foreword

www.it-ebooks.info

cringe. They are constantly deluged with complaints from every single function that they are fast and cutting edge but it is the other departments that slow the company down. When the whole company fails to find new sources of growth, there is plenty of blame to go around.
But the fault is not with the designers, or the engineers, or even the executives. The problem is the systems we use to build companies. We are still building linear organizations in a world that demands constant change. We are still building silos in a world that demands thorough collaboration. And we are still investing in analysis, arguing over specifications, and efficiently producing deliverables in a world that demands continuous experimentation in order to achieve continuous innovation.
It has been just about four years since I first began writing and speaking about a new concept called Lean Startup, and barely a year since I published The Lean Startup: How Today's Entrepreneurs Use Continuous Innovation to Achieve Radically Successful Businesses (Crown Business). In that time, I have seen the ideas grow and spread--from industry to industry, sector to sector, and function to function. Every time we have encountered new terrain, we have relied on farsighted leaders to help translate the core principles and develop new processes to implement them.
Lean UX is an important step in that evolution. For the first time, we have a comprehensive look at how Lean Startup principles apply in a design context. Along the way, it introduces important new tools and techniques to achieve superior collaboration, faster delivery, and--most importantly-- dramatically better products.
Lean Startup is a big tent. It builds on established ideas from many disciplines, from lean manufacturing to design thinking. It gives us a common vocabulary and set of concepts that can be used to accelerate results across the whole company. We can stop wasting time arguing about who is to blame and which department should rule the day.
It is my hope that all of us will remember to heed Jeff Gothelf's call to "get out of the deliverables business" and return our focus where it belongs, enlisting the whole corporation in its most urgent task: delighting customers.
It is time to break down the silos, unite the clans, and get to work.
Eric Ries January 30, 2013 San Francisco, CA

Foreword

XI

www.it-ebooks.info

www.it-ebooks.info

Preface
The biggest lie in software is Phase II. If you've spent any time building digital products in the last 20 years-- regardless of your role--you've felt the sting of this lie. You set aside features and ideas for the next phase of work and then they are gone, never to be heard from again. As a designer, I've had hundreds, if not thousands, of wireframes and workflows end up in this same bucket. But did these ideas disappear because they were flawed? Did the features that shipped actually meet customer and business goals, so Phase II ideas were never needed? Or did the team simply run out of time? The team never got to Phase II. In The Lean Startup, Eric Ries lays out his vision for how to ensure that the ideas that have the most value get the most resources. The method Ries promotes relies on experimentation, rapid iteration of ideas, and evolutionary processes. For Ries, the entire concept of Phase II becomes moot. The junction of Lean Startup and User Experience-based (UX) design-- and their symbiotically coexistence--is Lean UX.
What Is Lean UX and How Is It Different?
The Lean principles underlying Lean Startup apply to Lean UX in three ways. First, they help us remove waste from our UX design process. We move away from heavily documented handoffs to a process that creates only the design artifacts we need to move the team's learning forward. Second, they drive us to harmonize our "system" of designers, developers, product managers, quality assurance engineers, marketers, and others
XIII
www.it-ebooks.info

in a transparent, cross-functional collaboration that brings nondesigners into our design process. Last, and perhaps most important, is the mindset shift we gain from adopting a model based on experimentation. Instead of relying on a hero designer to divine the best solution from a single point of view, we use rapid experimentation and measurement to learn quickly how well (or not) our ideas meet our goals. In all of this, the designer's role begins to evolve toward design facilitation, and with that we take on a new set of responsibilities.
Besides Lean Startup, Lean UX has two other foundations: design thinking and Agile development philosophies. Design thinking takes a solutionfocused approach to problem solving, working collaboratively to iterate an endless, shifting path toward perfection. It works toward product goals via specific ideation, prototyping, implementation, and learning steps to bring the appropriate solution to light. Agile refocuses software development on value. It seeks to deliver working software to customers quickly and to adjust regularly to new learning along the way.
Lean UX uses these foundations to break the stalemate between the speed of Agile and the need for design in the product-development lifecycle. If you've struggled to figure our how UX design can work in Agile environments, Lean UX can help.
Lean UX breaks down the barriers that have kept software designers isolated from real business needs on the one hand and actual implementation on the other. Lean UX not only brings software designers to the table but also brings our partners in business and technology to the whiteboard to work with us on the best solutions in an ongoing way.
I once had a large pharmaceutical client who hired the agency for which I worked to redesign its ecommerce platform with the goal of increasing revenues by 15 percent. I was the lead interaction designer on our team. In the vacuum of our office, we spent months researching the current system, supply chain, competitors, target audience, and contextual-use scenarios. We researched personas and assembled strategic models. I designed a new information architecture for the product catalog and crafted a brand-new shopping and checkout experience.
The project took months. When the work was complete, we packaged it all up into a PowerPoint deck. This was a formidable deck-- it would have to be, considering the $600,000 price tag! We went over to the client's office and spent an entire eight-hour day going over each and every pixel and word in that deck. When it was over, the client clapped (really). They loved it. We were relieved. And we never looked at that deck again.

XIV

Preface

www.it-ebooks.info

Six months after that meeting, nothing had changed on the client's site. I don't think they ever looked at that deck again, either.
The moral of this story: building a pixel-perfect spec might be a route to raking in six-figure consulting fees, but it's not a way to make a meaningful difference to a real product that is crucial to real users. It's also not the reason that any designer got into the product design business. We got in to build valuable products and services, not to write specs.
Some teams I work with today create entirely new products or services. They are not working within an existing product framework or structure. In "green-field" projects like these, we are simultaneously trying to discover how this new product or service will be used, how it will behave, and how we are going to build it. It's an environment of continual change, and there isn't a lot of time or patience for planning or up-front design.
Other teams work with established products that were created with traditional design and development methods. Their challenge is different. They need to build upon existing platforms while increasing revenue and brand value. These teams usually have more resources at their disposal than a ground-floor startup, but they still have to use their resources efficiently to build products and services their customers actually want.
As I've learned to practice Lean UX, I've had to overcome the feeling that I was showing work that was "ugly," "unfinished," or "not ready." Working this way requires the support of a high-functioning team. You need to know--as a team--that you're not going to get it right the first time and that you're all working together to iterate your way forward. I want you to gain that confidence, too. Within the pages of this book, I've distilled the insights and tactics that have allowed me to create real success for product and business teams, and real satisfaction for customers.
Who Is Lean UX For?
This book is for interaction designers who know they can contribute more and be more effective with their teams. It's also for product managers who need better ways to define their products with their teams and to validate them with their customers. It's also for developers who understand that a collaborative team environment leads to better code and more meaningful work. And finally, it's for managers--managers of user-experience teams, project teams, business lines, departments, and companies--who understand the difference a great user experience can make.

Preface

XV

www.it-ebooks.info

What's In It for You?
The book is set up in three sections.
· Section I provides an overview and introduction to Lean UX and its founding principles. I lay out the reasons that the evolution of the UX design process is so critical and describe what Lean UX is. I also discuss the underlying principles you'll need to understand to make Lean UX successful.
· Section II focuses on process. Each chapter takes a step in the Lean UX cycle and details clearly how to do each step and why it's important. I also share examples of how I and others have done these things in the past.
· Section III tackles the integration of Lean UX practices into your organization. I discuss the role of Lean UX within a typical Agile development environment. I also discuss the organizational shifts that need to take place at the corporate level, the team level, and at the individual contributor level for these ideas to truly take hold.
My hope is that this book will deliver a wake-up call to user experience designers still waiting for Phase II. Although the book is filled with tactics and techniques to help evolve your processes, I'd like you to remember that Lean UX is, at its core, a mindset.
A Note from Jeff
There are many folks who have been patient, supportive, and inspirational in the writing of this book. Josh and I wanted to take a moment to thank them.
First, I'd like to acknowledge Eric Ries for driving the Lean Startup movement and urging me to write this book. His support came in various forms, including perspectives on design's role in Lean Startup and experience with the book-writing process. He served as a proverbial shoulder to cry on, on more than one occasion.
Next, I'd like to thank Mary Treseler, my editor at O'Reilly. We've spent many hours on emails, phone calls, and the occasional in-person meeting working through editorial strategies, writing tactics, and reviews to arrive--triumphantly, I might add--at the book we have today. Thank you.
Along the way, I teamed up with Matthew Rothenberg to get over the hump of midcycle reviews. His camaraderie, humor, wit, and editorial guidance helped shape the final version of the book and added a muchneeded humanity to the words.

XVI

Preface

www.it-ebooks.info

I'd like to thank my writing partner Josh Seiden. We spent a lot of time working, teaching, traveling, and hanging out together in 2012, so it only made logical sense for him to join the project and help bring it to the finish line. The book wouldn't be what it is today without his insight and toughlove editing style. I'm a better writer for it and this is a better book because of him. Thanks, Josh.
I would particularly like to thank the many folks who have contributed material to the book. By the end of the project, we had more case studies and contributions than we could use, so some of the wonderful material our colleagues shared didn't fit into the manuscript. This issue reflects more on our writing process than the quality of the contribution. With that said, thanks to Stuart Eccles, Ian Collingwood, Lane Halley, James O'Brien, Adam Silver, Antoine Veliz, Anders Ramsay, Desiree Sy, Zach Larson, Emily Holmes, Greg Petroff, and Duane Bray.
Many of the teams I've worked with over the years inspired the ideas covered in the book. We learned them together and helped build better products together--as well as happier and more productive teams. I know you'll see your influence in the case studies, stories, and anecdotes in these pages.
Finally, I want to acknowledge the love, patience, and support I've had from my family over the 18 months it took to reach a final manuscript. My wife Carrie has dealt with far too many hours of me locked in my office tapping at the keyboard. That sacrifice is not lost on me. My daughters Grace and Sophie have also watched their dad huddled in front of his laptop far too much. I'm sure they're looking forward to having me back in their life. I love you guys. Thank you.
A Note from Josh
In this book, Jeff and I describe a working style that is deeply collaborative. That's my preferred style of working--I always feel that I learn more and am more effective when I'm collaborating. Whatever I've been able to contribute to this book is a result of the amazing collaborations I've been lucky enough to enjoy in my career.
There are a few folks I'd like to single out, though. Alan Cooper first taught me what it means to design software. Working with Alan, I met Jeanine Harriman, who (many years later) first opened my eyes to many of the informal, collaborative techniques we describe in this book. Janice Fraser introduced me to Lean Startup and gave me an opportunity to explore these techniques at LUXr (the Lean UX Residency). Lauralee Alben gave me the courage to open a studio to pursue these ideas, and Giff Constable gave me the kick in the ass to actually open that studio. My friends in

Preface

XVII

www.it-ebooks.info

the Balanced Team (http://www.balancedteam.org) group have had a deep influence on my thinking.
Special thanks go to Lane Halley, who is one of the most gifted practitioners I've ever met and a dear friend. Whenever I am confused, I ask myself, "What would Lane do?" and I usually find a way forward.
I want to thank Jeff for inviting me to join him in bringing this book to market. The book is in his voice because this is his story. It's also been his baby, his passion, and his burden for a long time, so I'm grateful he opened the door for me to join him. I'm continually impressed by his ability to collaborate with grace. Jeff and I have spent a lot of time working together this year, and I'm very proud of that collaboration.
Thanks, finally, to Vicky, Naomi, and Amanda. I love you.
From Jeff and Josh
This book is our attempt to capture what we know about Lean UX at this moment. Lean methods are learning methods, and we expect to be learning and discovering more as we continue our journey. As you travel down this path, we'd love to hear about your journey--your successes, challenges, and failures--so that we can keep learning through our collaboration with you. Please keep in touch with us and share your thoughts. You can reach us at jeff@jeffgothelf.com and josh@joshuaseiden.com. We look forward to hearing from you.

XVIII

Preface

www.it-ebooks.info

S ec t i o n I :
Introduction and Principles
In this first section, I provide an introduction to Lean UX and its founding principles. I discuss why the evolution of the UX design process is so critical and describe what Lean UX is. I also discuss the underlying principles you'll need to understand to make Lean UX successful. Chapter 1, "Why Lean UX?" provides a brief history of UX design and why the time is right for the evolution of that design process. In Chapter 2, "Principles," I present a detailed look at the key principles that drive the Lean UX process. These principles offer a framework for a leaner product-design process and also provide basic management guidelines for product-design teams. They are critical to the success of Lean UX and, if incorporated into your organization, will have profound impact on your culture and on the productivity and success of your teams.
www.it-ebooks.info

www.it-ebooks.info

C hap t er 1
Why Lean UX?
When bringing our craft to software in the 1980s and 1990s, designers approached software in the same way we approached the earlier materials we worked with. In industrial design, print design, fashion design, and any field involving physical outputs, the manufacturing step is a critical constraint. When designing for physical materials, designers need to figure out what we're making before we start production, because production is expensive. It's expensive to set up a factory floor to produce hard goods or garments. It's expensive to set up a printing press for a print run. Working in software, designers faced new challenges. We had to figure out the grammar of this new medium, and as we did, we saw new specialties such as interaction design and information architecture emerge. But the process by which designers practiced remained largely unchanged. We still designed products in great detail in advance, because we still had to deal with a "manufacturing" process: our work had to be duplicated onto floppy disks and CDs, which were then distributed to market in exactly the same way that physical goods were distributed. The cost of getting it wrong remained high. Today, we face a new reality. The Internet has changed the distribution of software in radical ways. Most software is now distributed online. We are no longer limited by a physical manufacturing process and are free to work in much shorter release cycles. But "free" really undersells this new reality. Teams are now facing intense pressure from competitors who are using techniques such as agile software development, continuous integration, and continuous deployment to
3
www.it-ebooks.info

radically reduce their cycle times. Teams are pushing new code to production as fast as you can save a Photoshop file. And they are using these short cycles as a competitive advantage--releasing early and often, gaining market feedback, and iterating based on what they learn--and (perhaps inadvertently) raising customer expectations in terms of quality and response times.
In this new reality, traditional "get it all figured out first" approaches are not workable. So what should designers do?
It's time for a change. Lean UX (UX = user experience) is the evolution of product design. It takes the best parts of the designer's tool kit and recombines them in a way that makes them relevant to this new reality.
Lean UX is deeply collaborative and cross-functional, because we no longer have the luxury of working in isolation from the rest of the product team. We can't continue to ask our teams to wait for us to figure it all out. We need daily, continuous engagement with our teams if we are going to be effective. This continuous engagement allows us to strip away heavy deliverables in favor of techniques that allow us to build shared understanding with our teammates.
Lean UX also lets us change the way we talk about design. Instead of talking about features and documents, we can talk about what works. In this new reality, we have more access to market feedback than ever before. This feedback allows us to reframe design conversations in terms of objective business goals. We can measure what works, learn, and adjust.
Lean UX is three things. It's easiest to understand as a process change for designers. But it's more than that. It's a mindset that lets us approach our work in new ways. It's also a way of thinking about managing software. I'll dig into each one of these concepts throughout the book. In the next chapter we'll take a look at the principles that lay the foundation for Lean UX design.

4

Chapter 1

www.it-ebooks.info

C hap t er 2
Principles
At the heart of Lean UX, you'll find a core set of principles. These principles cover process, collaboration, management, and more. Teams guided by all these principles will get the most out of the Lean UX approach. Start with these principles to get your teams pointed in the right direction, and keep them in mind as you start to implement the Lean UX processes I describe later in this book. You will inevitably have to adjust the Lean UX processes to fit them into your organization, and the principles explained in this chapter will provide guidance to you for that work. Ultimately, if you're able to put these principles to work, you'll find that you will change your organization's culture. Some will have more impact than others and will be more difficult to push through. Others will be easier to act on. Regardless, each principle detailed here will help you build a product design organization that is more collaborative, more cross-functional, and a more useful fit for today's reality.
The Three Foundations of Lean UX
Lean UX stands on three foundations. The first foundation is design thinking. Tim Brown, CEO and president of legendary design firm IDEO, described design thinking as "innovation powered by...direct observation of what people want and need in their lives and what they like or dislike about the way particular products are made, packaged, marketed, sold, and supported...[It's] a discipline that uses the designer's sensibility and methods to match people's needs with what is technologically feasible and what
5
www.it-ebooks.info

a viable business strategy can convert into customer value and market opportunity."1
Design thinking is important for Lean UX because it takes the explicit position that every aspect of a business can be approached with design methods. It gives designers permission and precedent to work beyond their typical boundaries. It also encourages nondesigners to use design methods to solve the problems they face in their roles. Design thinking is a critical foundation that encourages teams to collaborate across roles and consider product design from a holistic perspective.
The second foundation of Lean UX is Agile software development. Software developers have been using Agile methods for years to reduce their cycle times and deliver customer value in a continuous manner. Although Agile methods can pose process challenges for designers (solutions are provided in Section III), the core values of Agile are at the heart of Lean UX. Lean UX applies the four core principles of Agile development to product design:
1. Individuals and interactions over processes and tools. To generate the best solutions quickly, you must engage the entire team. Ideas must be exchanged freely and frequently. The constraints of current processes and production tools are eschewed in favor of conversation with colleagues.
2. Working software over comprehensive documentation. Every business problem has endless solutions, and each member of a team will have an opinion on which is best. The challenge is figuring out which solution is most viable. By building working software sooner, solutions can be assessed for market fit and viability.
3. Customer collaboration over contract negotiation. Collaborating with your teammates and customers builds a shared understanding of the problem space and proposed solutions. It creates consensus behind decisions. The result? Faster iterations, real involvement in product making, and team investment in validated learning. It also lessens dependency on heavy documentation, as everyone on the team has already participated in making the decisions that were used to require written communication and defense.
4. Responding to change over following a plan. The assumption in Lean UX is that the initial product designs will be wrong, so the goal should be to find out what's wrong with them as soon as possible. Once we discover what's working and what's not, we adjust our proposals and test again. This input from the market keeps us agile, constantly nudging us in a "more right" direction.

1 http://hbr.org/2008/06/design-thinking/ar/1 6
www.it-ebooks.info

Chapter 2

The third foundation of Lean UX is the Lean Startup method founded by Eric Ries. Lean Startup uses a feedback loop called "build-measurelearn" to minimize project risk and gets teams building quickly and learning quickly. Teams build Minimum Viable Products (MVPs) and ship them quickly to begin the process of learning as early as possible.
As Eric puts it, "Lean Startup initially advocates the creation of rapid prototypes designed to test market assumptions and uses customer feedback to evolve them much faster than more traditional software engineering practices...Lean Startup processes reduce waste by increasing the frequency of contact with real customers, therefore testing and avoiding incorrect market assumptions as early as possible."2 Lean UX is a direct application of this philosophy to the practice of product design.
Each design is a proposed business solution--a hypothesis. Your goal is to validate the proposed solution as efficiently as possible by using customer feedback. The smallest thing you can build to test each hypothesis is your MVP. The MVP doesn't have to be made of code; it can be an approximation of the end experience. You collect what you learn from your MVP and then evolve your ideas. Then you do it again.
The practice of Lean UX is: Lean UX is the practice of bringing the true nature of a product to light faster, in a collaborative, cross-functional way that reduces the emphasis on thorough documentation while increasing the focus on building a shared understanding of the actual product experience being designed.
Principles
In the rest of this chapter, I'll lay out the principles behind Lean UX. As you explore the Lean UX approach, keep these principles in mind. Think of your experience with Lean UX as a learning journey. Use these principles to keep you and your team on course.
Principle: Cross-Functional Teams
What is it? Cross-functional teams are made up of the various disciplines involved in creating your product. Software engineering, product management, interaction design, visual design, content strategy, marketing, and quality assurance (QA) should all be included in a Lean UX team. Lean UX demands a high level of collaboration between these disciplines. Their involvement must be continuous, from day one of the project until the end of the engagement.

2 The Lean Startup (Crown Business, 2011).

Principles

7

www.it-ebooks.info

Why do it? The creation of these diverse teams collapses the gated-handoff process known as waterfall. Insight on each idea is brought in from all relevant disciplines earlier in the process. Conversation is encouraged across functional silos, which drives greater team efficiency.
Principle: Small, Dedicated, Colocated
What is it? Keep your teams small--no more than 10 total core people. Dedicate them to one project and staff it all out of the same location.
Why do it? The benefit of small teams comes down to three words: communication, focus, and camaraderie. Smaller teams are easier to keep current on project status, changes, and new learning. Dedicating your team to one project keeps everyone on the team focused on the same priorities all the time. Having the team all in one place allows relationships to grow between colleagues.
Principle: Progress = Outcomes, Not Output
What is it? Features and services are outputs. The business goals they are meant to achieve are outcomes. Lean UX measures progress in terms of explicitly defined business outcomes.
Why do it? When we attempt to predict which features will achieve specific outcomes, we are mostly engaging in speculation. Although it's easier to manage toward the launch of specific feature sets, we don't know in any meaningful way whether a feature is effective until it's in the market. By managing to outcomes (and the progress made toward them), we gain insight into the efficacy of the features we are building. If a feature is not performing well, we can make an objective decision as to whether it should be kept, changed, or replaced.
Principle: Problem-Focused Teams
What is it? A problem-focused team is one that has been assigned a business problem to solve, as opposed to a set of features to implement. This is the logical extension of the focus on outcomes.
Why do it? Assigning teams problems to solve shows trust in those teams. It allows them to come up with their own solutions and drives a deeper sense of pride and ownership in the solutions the team implements.
Principle: Removing Waste
What is it? One of the core tenets in Lean manufacturing is the removal of anything that doesn't lead to the ultimate goal. In Lean UX, the ultimate

8

Chapter 2

www.it-ebooks.info

goal is improved outcomes; hence, anything that doesn't contribute to that is considered waste and should be removed from the team's process.
Why do it? Team resources are limited. The more waste the team can eliminate, the faster they can move. Teams want to work on the right challenges. They want to be effective. A discipline of waste removal can help teams keep their laser focus where it belongs.
Principle: Small Batch Size
What is it? Another fundamental from Lean manufacturing is the use of small batch sizes. Lean manufacturing uses this notion to keep inventory low and quality high. Translated to Lean UX, this concept means creating only the design that is necessary to move the team forward and avoiding a big "inventory" of untested and unimplemented design ideas.
Why do it? Large-batch design makes the team less efficient. It forces the team to wait for big design deliverables. It keeps the team from learning whether their ideas are valid. It keeps some teammates idle and inevitably results in design assets that go unused. This approach is wasteful and doesn't maximize the full learning potential of the team.
Principle: Continuous Discovery
What is it? Continuous discovery is the ongoing process of engaging the customer during the design and development process. This engagement is done through regularly scheduled activities, using both quantitative and qualitative methods. The goal is to understand what the users are doing with your products and why they are doing it. Research is done on frequent and regular schedules. Research involves the entire team.
Why do it? Regular customer conversations provide frequent opportunities for validating new product ideas. By bringing the entire team into the research cycle, the team will develop empathy for users and the problems they face. Finally, as the team learns together, you reduce the need for future debrief conversations and documentation.
Principle: GOOB: The New User-Centricity
What is it? It may sound like a baby's first word, but GOOB is actually an acronym for what Stanford professor, entrepreneur, and author Steve Blank calls "getting out of the building." It's the realization that meeting-room debates about user needs won't be settled conclusively within your office. Instead, the answers lie out in the marketplace, outside of your building.

Principles

9

www.it-ebooks.info

After years of advocating for customer research, the UX community has a champion from the business world in Steve Blank. Blank's prescription: give potential customers a chance to provide feedback on your ideas sooner than you would have in the past. Much sooner. Test your ideas with a strong dose of reality while they're still young. Better to find out that your ideas are missing the mark before you've spent time and resources building a product that no one wants.
Why do it? Ultimately, the success or failure of your product isn't the team's decision--it's the customers'. They will have to click that "Buy Now" button you designed. The sooner you give them a voice, the sooner you'll learn whether you've got an idea that's ready to be built.
Principle: Shared Understanding
What is it? Shared understanding is the collective knowledge of the team that builds up over time as the team works together. It's a rich understanding of the space, the product, and the customers.
Why do it? Shared understanding is the currency of Lean UX. The more a team collectively understands what it's doing and why, the less it has to depend on secondhand reports and detailed documents to continue its work.
Principle: Anti-Pattern: Rockstars, Gurus, and Ninjas
What is it? Lean UX advocates a team-based mentality. Rockstars, gurus, ninjas, and other elite experts of their craft break down team cohesion and eschew collaboration.
Why do it? Rockstars don't share--neither their ideas nor the spotlight. Team cohesion breaks down when you add individuals with large egos who are determined to stand out and be stars. When collaboration breaks down, you lose the environment you need to create the shared understanding that allows you [to avoid repetition] to move forward effectively.
Principle: Externalizing Your Work
What is it? Externalizing means getting your work out of your head and out of your computer and into public view. Teams use whiteboards, foamcore boards, artifact walls, printouts, and sticky notes to expose their work in progress to their teammates, colleagues, and customers.
Why do it? Externalizing gets ideas out of teammates' heads and on to the wall, allowing everyone to see where the team stands. It creates a passive, ambient flow of information across the team. It inspires new ideas that build off the ones that have already been shared. It allows all the members

10

Chapter 2

www.it-ebooks.info

of the team--even the quiet ones--to participate in information-sharing activities. Their sticky notes or whiteboard sketches are equally as loud as those of the most prominent person on the team.
Principle: Making over Analysis
What is it? Lean UX values making over analysis. There is more value in creating the first version of an idea than spending half a day debating its merits in a conference room.
Why do it? The answer to most difficult questions the team will face will not be answered in a conference room. Instead, they will be answered by customers in the field. In order to get those answers, you need to make the ideas concrete--you need to make something for people to respond to. Debating ideas is waste. Instead of analyzing potential scenarios, make something and get out of the building with it.
Principle: Learning over Growth
What is it? It's difficult to figure out the right thing to build and scale a business around that thing at the same time. They are contradictory activities. Lean UX favors a focus on learning first and scaling second.
Why do it? Scaling an idea that is unproven is risky. It might work. And it might not. If it doesn't work and you've scaled it out to your entire user base, your team has wasted valuable time and resources. Ensuring that an idea is right before scaling it out mitigates the risk inherent in broad feature deployment.
Principle: Permission to Fail
What is it? In order to find the best solution to business problems, Lean UX teams need to experiment with ideas. Most of these ideas will fail. The team must be safe to fail if they are to be successful. Permission to fail means that the team has a safe environment in which to experiment. That philosophy applies to both the technical environment (they can push out ideas in a safe way) and the cultural environment (they won't be penalized for trying ideas that don't succeed).
Why do it? Permission to fail breeds a culture of experimentation. Experimentation breeds creativity. Creativity, in turn, yields innovative solutions. When teams don't fear for their jobs if they get something wrong, they're more apt to take risks. It is from those risks that big ideas ultimately come. Finally, as the following anecdote illustrates so beautifully, frequent failures lead to increased mastery of skills.

Principles

11

www.it-ebooks.info

In a video called "Why You Need to Fail" (http://www.youtube.com/ watch?v=HhxcFGuKOys), CD Baby founder Derek Sivers describes the surprising results of a ceramics class. On the first day, the instructor announced to his class that the students would be divided into two groups. Half of the students would need to make only one clay pot each during the semester. Their grades would depend on the perfection of that solitary pot. The other half of the class would be graded simply by the weight of the pots they made during the semester. If they made 50 pounds of pots or more, they'd get an A. Forty pounds would earn a B; 30 pounds, a C; and so on. What they actually made was irrelevant. The instructor said he wouldn't even look at their pots. He would bring his bathroom scale to the final day of class and weigh the students' work.
At the end of the semester, an interesting thing had occurred. Outside observers of the class noted that the highest-quality pots had been made by the "quantity group." They had spent the entire semester working as quickly as they could to make pots. Sometimes they succeeded, and sometimes they failed. With each iteration, each experiment, they learned. From that learning, they became better able to achieve the end goal: making high-quality clay pots.
By contrast, the group that made one object didn't have the benefit of those failed iterations and didn't learn quickly enough to perform at the same level as the "quantity group." They had spent their semester theorizing about what would make a "grade-A" clay pot but didn't have the experience to execute that grandiose vision.
Principle: Getting Out of the Deliverables Business
What is it? Lean UX refocuses the design process away from the documents the team is creating to the outcomes the team is achieving. With increased cross-functional collaboration, stakeholder conversation becomes less about what artifact is being created and more about which outcome is being achieved.
Why do it? Documents don't solve customer problems--good products do. The team's focus should be on learning which features have the biggest impact on the their customers. The artifacts the team uses to gain that knowledge are irrelevant. All that matters is the quality of the product, as measured by the market's reaction to it.

12

Chapter 2

www.it-ebooks.info

Wrapping Up: Principles
This chapter put forward a set of foundational principles for Lean UX. These are the core attributes that any Lean UX team must embody. As you begin to form your Lean UX practice, I encourage you to use these principles to define your team's makeup, location, goals, and practices.
In Section II, I'll put these principles into action as I detail the entire Lean UX process.

Principles

13

www.it-ebooks.info

www.it-ebooks.info

S ec t i o n I I :
Process
It's Tuesday and Rick, Mark, Olga, and Arti are standing at the whiteboard, looking at a wireframe that they've drawn. Arti has a marker in her hand, but she's not drawing. "Rick, I don't understand what you're driving at. Can you explain the problem?" Rick takes the marker, wipes clear a section of the board, and explains the regulation again. The team is designing an app for stock traders, and the app has to obey a strict set of regulations. Rick, the business analyst, is responsible for making sure that the team's designs support the rules. After a while, the team is nodding, and Arti takes the marker again. She suggests a change to the wireframe design of the app on the board and the team nods again. They all take out their iPhones, take photos of the board, and agree to reconvene the next day. They're confident that what they've agreed on will be ready for user testing on Thursday.
www.it-ebooks.info

Arti, the designer, goes back to her desk to start detailing the design they've sketched. Mark, the front-end developer, starts building the page--he uses premade components from the living style guide the team has put in place, so he doesn't need to wait for Arti before getting the basic pieces in place. Rick opens the project's wiki and begins to document the decisions the team has made about the application behavior. He'll review these choices with the product owner later in the day. And Olga, the QA tester, begins the process of writing tests for the new section of the app. This is the day-to-day rhythm of Lean UX: a team working collaboratively, iteratively, and in parallel, with few handoffs, minimal deliverables, and a focus on working software and market feedback. In this section, you'll see how it's done. In the previous section, I showed you the ideas behind Lean UX--the principles that drive the work. In this section, I get very practical and describe in detail the process of implementing Lean UX. Chapter 3, "Vision, Framing, and Outcomes," describes how Lean UX radically shifts the way we frame our work. Our goal is not to create a deliverable, it's to change something in the world--to create an outcome. In this chapter I'll describe the key tool we use to do this: hypothesis statements. Chapter 4, "Collaborative Design," describes the shift in our design process. Lean UX uses many techniques familiar to designers but shifts the emphasis of our work. We become more collaborative. We aim for speed first. We prioritize learning. We use a key tool to achieve this: the MVP. Chapter 5, "MVPs and Experiments," is about experiments. Lean UX is based on the idea that we begin our work with an assumption. We use experiments to test our assumptions and then build on what we learn in those experiments. This chapter shows you how to orient your design process around experiments and learning. Chapter 6, "Feedback and Research," deals with feedback. User Experience work in any form requires good input from users. Lean UX puts a premium on continuous feedback to help us guide our design process. This chapter shows you techniques that Lean UX teams use to get feedback early and often, and how to incorporate that feedback into future product iterations.
www.it-ebooks.info

C hap t er 3
Vision, Framing, and Outcomes
If it disagrees with experiment, it's wrong. Dr. Richard Feynman
Traditionally, UX design projects are framed by requirements and deliverables; teams are given requirements and expected to produce deliverables. Lean UX radically shifts the way we frame our work. Our goal is not to create a deliverable, it's to change something in the world--to create an outcome. We start with assumptions instead of requirements. We create and test hypotheses. We measure to see whether we've achieved our desired outcomes. This chapter covers the main tool of outcome-focused work: the hypothesis statement. The hypothesis statement is the starting point for a project. It states a clear vision for the work and shifts the conversation between team members and their managers from outputs (e.g., "we will create a single sign-on feature") to outcomes (e.g., "we want to increase the number of new sign-ups to our service"). The hypothesis statement is a way of expressing assumptions in testable form. It is composed of the following elements: Assumptions
A high-level declaration of what we believe to be true.
17
www.it-ebooks.info

Hypotheses More granular descriptions of our assumptions that target specific areas of our product or workflow for experimentation.
Outcomes The signal we seek from the market to help us validate or invalidate our hypotheses. These are often quantitative but can also be qualitative.
Personas Models of the people for whom we believe we are solving a problem.
Features The product changes or improvements we believe will drive the outcomes we seek.
Let's take a look at each one of these elements in further detail.
Assumptions
The first step in the Lean UX process is to declare your assumptions. Every project starts with assumptions, but usually we don't explicitly acknowledge this fact. Instead, we try to ignore assumptions, or worse, treat them as facts.
Declaring your assumptions allows your team to create a common starting point. By doing this as a team, you give every team member--designer and nondesigner alike--the opportunity to voice his or her opinion on how best to solve the problem. Going through an assumptions declaration exercise gets everyone's ideas out on the whiteboard. It reveals the team's divergence of opinions and also exposes a broad set of possible solutions.
Declaring assumptions is the first step in the Lean UX process; see Figure 3-1.

Figure 3-1. The Lean UX process, step 1
18
www.it-ebooks.info

Chapter 3

Method: Declaring Assumptions
Who
Declaring assumptions is a group exercise. Gather your team, making sure that all disciplines are represented, including any subject matter experts that could have vital knowledge about your project. For example, if you're handling a frequent customer complaint, it might be beneficial to include a customer service representative from your call center. Call center reps speak to more customers than anyone else in the organization, and will likely have insight the rest of the team won't.
Preparation
Give the team advance notice of the problem they will be taking on to give everyone a chance to prepare any material they need, or do any related research, before you begin. Important things to prepare in advance include:
1. Analytics reports that show how the current product is being used
2. Usability reports that illustrate why customers are taking certain actions in your product
3. Information about past attempts to fix this issue and their successes and failures
4. Analysis from the business stakeholder as to how solving this problem will affect the company's performance
5. Competitive analyses that show how competitors are tackling the same issues
Method: Problem Statement
The team needs to have a starting point for the exercise. I've found it helpful to start with a problem statement. (See the template for this statement later in this section.) The problem statement gives your team a clear focus for their work. It also defines any important constraints. You need constraints for group work. They provide the guardrails that keep the team grounded and aligned.

Vision, Framing, and Outcomes

19

www.it-ebooks.info

Problem statement template
Problem statements are made up of three elements:
1. The current goals of the product or system
2. The problem the business stakeholder wants addressed (i.e., where the goals aren't being met)
3. An explicit request for improvement that doesn't dictate a specific solution
Template
[Our service/product] was designed to achieve [these goals]. We have observed that the product/service isn't meeting [these goals], which is causing [this adverse effect] to our business. How might we improve [service/product] so that our customers are more successful based on [these measurable criteria]?
For example, here is a problem statement we used to begin a project at TheLadders, an online recruiting firm where I worked. (You'll see many more examples from TheLadders throughout this book.)
Our service offers a conduit between job seekers and employers trying to hire them. Through our service, employers can reach out to job seekers in our ecosystem with employment opportunities. We have observed that one critical factor affecting customer satisfaction is how frequently job seekers respond to employer messages. Currently, job seekers are replying to these communications at a very low rate. How might we improve the efficacy of our communication products, thus making employers more successful in their jobs and job seekers more satisfied with our service?
Problem statements are filled with assumptions. The team's job is to dissect the problem statement into its core assumptions. You can do that by using the following business assumptions worksheet. Note that some teams-- especially teams starting from scratch--may not have a clear problem statement. That's okay. You can still try out the worksheet. You'll just have to expect that it may take longer to reach consensus on some of the questions.

20

Chapter 3

www.it-ebooks.info

Business Assumptions Worksheet

I like to use this worksheet (created by my partner Giff Constable) to facilitate the assumptions discussion. There are many ways to complete this worksheet. You can answer the questions as a team, simply discussing each answer. Or you can run a structured brainstorm/affinity mapping exercise for each question. However you do it, remember that it's important to give everyone a chance to contribute. Also, don't worry if you get to the end of the worksheet without clear agreement on all of the answers. The goal is to collect statements that reflect what you and your team think might be true. If you have strong disagreement on a point, capture the different perspectives.

Assumptions Worksheet

Business Assumptions
1. I believe my customers have a need to _______.
2. These needs can be solved with _______ .
3. My initial customers are (or will be) _______ .
4. The #1 value a customer wants to get out of my service is _______.
5. The customer can also get these additional benefits _______.
6. I will acquire the majority of my customers through _______.
7. I will make money by _______. 8. My primary competition in the
market will be _______. 9. We will beat them due to _______. 10. My biggest product risk is _______. 11. We will solve this through _______. 12. What other assumptions do we have
that, if proven false, will cause our business/project to fail? _______.

User Assumptions
1. Who is the user? 2. Where does our product fit in his
work or life? 3. What problems does our product
solve? 4. When and how is our product
used? 5. What features are important? 6. How should our product look and
behave?

You may discover that some of these questions don't apply to your project. That's okay--you can adapt the questions to your situation as you see fit. If it's early in the life of your product, you'll probably spend more time on the business assumptions. If you've got a mature product, you'll probably focus your energies on the user assumptions. The point is to cast a broad net and look for assumptions in all dimensions of your project.
When you've completed the worksheet, you will have a list of assumption statements. Your next step is to prioritize these assumptions.

Vision, Framing, and Outcomes

21

www.it-ebooks.info

Prioritizing assumptions
The reason we declare assumptions at the start of our work is so that we can identify project risks. Once you have a list of assumptions, you need to figure out which ones are the riskiest so that you can work on them first.
Lean UX is an exercise in ruthless prioritization. Understanding that you can't test every assumption, how do you decide which one to test first? I like to create a chart like the one in Figure 3-2, and use it to map out the list of assumptions.
The goal is to prioritize a set of assumptions to test based on their level of risk (i.e., how bad would it be if we were wrong about this?) and how much understanding we have of the issue. The higher the risk and the more unknowns involved, the higher the priority to test those assumptions.
This doesn't mean that assumptions that don't make the first cut are gone forever. Keep a backlog of the other assumptions you've identified so you can come back to them and test them if and when it makes sense to do so.

Figure 3-2. Prioritization matrix
Hypotheses
With your prioritized list of assumptions in hand, you're ready to move to the next step: testing your assumptions. To do that, transform each assumption statement into a format that is easier to test: a hypothesis statement. Generally, hypothesis statements use the format:
We believe [this statement is true]. We will know we're [right/wrong] when we see the following feedback from the market:

22

Chapter 3

www.it-ebooks.info

[qualitative feedback] and/or [quantitative feedback] and/or [key performance indicator change].
You can see that this format has two parts. A statement of what you believe to be true, and a statement of the market feedback you're looking for to confirm that you're right.
Expressing your assumptions this way turns out to be a really powerful technique. It takes much of the subjective and political conversation out of the decision-making process and instead orients the team toward feedback from the market. It also orients the team toward users and customers.
Subhypotheses: Breaking the Hypothesis Down into Smaller Parts
Sometimes--if not most of the time--you will discover that your hypothesis is too big to test with one test. It will contain too many moving parts, too many subhypotheses. When this happens, I find it helpful to break the hypothesis down into smaller and more specific parts. Though there are many ways to do this, for product work I have found that this format is very helpful:
We believe that
[doing this/building this feature/creating this experience]
for [these people/personas]
will achieve [this outcome].
We will know this is true when we see
[this market feedback, quantitative measure, or qualitative insight].
The first field is completed with the feature or improvement you're considering making to your product. The second field describes exactly which of your target customers will benefit from this feature. The last field speaks to the benefit those customers will get from that feature. The final statement ties it all together. This is the statement that determines whether your hypothesis was true. What market feedback will you look for to indicate that your idea is correct? This feedback could be a quantitatively measured usage of a feature, an increase in a business metric, or a qualitative assessment of some sort.

Vision, Framing, and Outcomes

23

www.it-ebooks.info

It's not all numbers! It's worth noting that there's been a lot of backlash in the design world against measurement-driven design. The argument is that by reducing every design decision to factors that can be measured, we take the delight and soul out of our products. I actually agree with this perspective, which is why I think it's so important to include qualitative feedback in your success criteria. Are people delighted by a design? Do they recommend your product to their friends? Do they tweet about it? When you look for success metrics, remember that it's not all numbers.
Let's take a look at an example of how this works by going back to the problem statement we looked at earlier from TheLadders:
Our service offers a conduit between job seekers and employers trying to hire them. Through our service, employers can reach out to job seekers in our ecosystem with employment opportunities. We have observed that one critical factor affecting customer satisfaction is how frequently job seekers respond to employer messages. Currently, job seekers are replying to these communications at a very low rate. How can we improve the efficacy of our communication products, thus making employers more successful in their jobs and job seekers more satisfied with our service?
One assumption we make in this problem statement is that recruiters will use a new channel (TheLadders) to engage with candidates. This is not a proven fact and needs to be tested. How would we write the hypothesis for that statement? Let's take our template and fill it out:
We believe that
creating an efficient communication system within TheLadders' product experience
for recruiters and employers
will achieve a higher rate of contact success and an increase in product satisfaction.
We will know this is true when we see an increase in the number of replies from job seekers to recruiter contacts and an increase in the number of messages initiated by recruiters in our system.

24

Chapter 3

www.it-ebooks.info

The Importance of Benchmarks
Remember, none of your metrics will be meaningful if you don't have a benchmark in place prior to writing your hypotheses. That benchmark--the current state of the metrics you're using to determine your idea's success--needs to be captured ahead of time to ensure that the team knows what it's targeting.
Completing Your Hypothesis Statements
To create your hypothesis statements, start assembling the building blocks. Put together a list of outcomes you are trying to create, a definition of the personas you are trying to service, and a set of the features you believe might work in this situation. Once you've got all of this raw material, you can put them all together into a set of statements. Let's take a closer look at each of these elements.
Outcomes
When you're creating hypotheses to test, you want to try to be very specific regarding the outcomes you are trying to achieve. I discussed earlier how Lean UX teams focus less on output (the documents, the drawings, even the products and features that we create) and more on the outcomes that these outputs create: can we make it easier for people to log into our site? Can we encourage more people to sign up? Can we encourage greater collaboration among system users?
Together with your team, look at the problem you are trying to solve. You probably have a few high-level outcomes you are hoping to achieve (e.g., increasing signups, increasing usage, etc.). Consider how you can break down these high-level outcomes into smaller parts. What behaviors will predict greater usage: more visitors to the site? Greater click-through on email marketing? Increasing number of items in the shopping cart? Sometimes it's helpful to run a team brainstorm to create a list of individual outcomes that, taken together, you believe will predict the larger outcome you seek.
Figure 3-3 shows an example from Giff Constable, in which an executive leadership team brainstormed and then voted on which key performance indicators (KPIs) the company should pursue next. After consolidating to the list shown in the photo, each executive was given four M&Ms. As long as they managed not to eat their votes, these executives were able to vote (with candy) for each metric they felt was most important. Ties were broken by the CEO.

Vision, Framing, and Outcomes

25

www.it-ebooks.info

Figure 3-3. KPI prioritization with candy
Personas
Designers often create models called personas to represent the users of their systems. If your team already has a well-defined set of personas, the only thing you need to consider at this point is which ones you will be using in your hypothesis statements. If you don't yet have personas, this section explains how to create personas for the Lean UX process.
Proto-Personas
Designers have long been advocates for the end user. Lean UX is no different. As we make assumptions about our business and the outcomes we'd like to achieve, we still need to keep the user front and center in our thinking.
Most of us learned to think about personas as a tool to represent what we learned in our research. It was often the case that we created personas as the output of lengthy, expensive research studies. The problem with personas that are created this way is the assumption that this is the only way to create personas, as well as the tendency to regard personas created through this process as untouchable because of all of the work that went into creating them.
In Lean UX, we change the order of operations in the persona process. When creating personas in this approach, we start with assumptions and then do research to validate our assumptions. Instead of spending months in the field interviewing people, we spend a few hours creating

26

Chapter 3

www.it-ebooks.info

proto-personas. Proto-personas are our best guess as to who is using (or will use) our product and why. We sketch them on paper with the entire team contributing--we want to capture everyone's assumptions. Then, as we learn from our ongoing research, we quickly find out how accurate our initial guesses are, and how we'll need to adjust our target audience (and persona)--and thus our design.
Using Proto-Personas
A team we were working with in New York was building an app that improved the Community-Supported Agriculture (CSA) experience for New York City residents. CSA is a program that allows city residents to pool their money and purchase an entire season's worth of produce from a local farmer. The farmer then delivers his crops, weekly, to the members of the CSA. Many subscribers to the CSA are men and women in their late twenties and early thirties who need to juggle a busy work life, an active social life, and a desire to participate in the CSA.
The team assumed that most CSA consumers were women who liked to cook. They spent about an hour creating a persona named Susan. But when they went out into the field to do research, they quickly learned that the overwhelming majority of cooks, and hence the potential users of their app, were young men. They returned to the office and revised their persona to create Timothy (Figure 3-4).

Figure 3-4. Proto-persona example
Timothy proved to be a far more accurate target user. The team didn't waste any more time refining ideas for the wrong audience. They were now focused on an audience that, while still not perfect, was far more correct than their initial assumptions.

Vision, Framing, and Outcomes

27

www.it-ebooks.info

Persona Format
We like to sketch proto-personas on paper using a hand-drawn quadrant, as in Figures 3-5 and 3-6 (start by folding a sheet of paper into four boxes). The top-left quadrant holds a rough sketch of the persona and his or her name and role. The top-right box holds basic demographic information. Try to focus on demographic information that predicts a specific type of behavior. For example, there may be cases in which the persona's age is totally irrelevant yet their access to a specific device, such as an iPhone, will completely change the way they interact with your product.

Figure 3-5. Blank persona template
The bottom half of the proto-persona is where we put the meat of the information. The bottom-left quadrant contains the user's needs and frustration with the current product or situation, the specific pain points your product is trying to solve, and/or the opportunity you're trying to address. The bottom-right quadrant contains potential solutions for those needs. You'll use the bottom-right quadrant to capture feature and solution ideas.

28

Chapter 3

www.it-ebooks.info

Figure 3-6. Completed persona template
Persona Creation Process
As with the other elements of the hypothesis statement, we like to start the persona creation process with a brainstorm. Team members offer up their opinions on who the project should be targeting and how that would affect each potential user's use of the product. Once the brainstorming is complete, the team should narrow down the ideas to an initial set of three or four personas they believe are most likely to be the target audience. Try to differentiate the personas around needs and roles rather than by demographic.

Vision, Framing, and Outcomes

29

www.it-ebooks.info

Features
Once you have a list of outcomes in mind and have focused in on a group of users, it's time to start thinking about what tactics, features, products, and services you can put in place to achieve those desired outcomes. Typically, everyone on the team has a strong opinion at this stage--after all, features are the most concrete things we work with, so it's often easiest for us to express our ideas in terms of features. Too often, though, our design process starts when someone has a feature idea, and we end up working backward to try to justify the feature. In Lean UX, features exist to serve the needs of the business, the customer, and the user.
Feature Brainstorming Process
Employing the same techniques described earlier, we like to create feature lists by brainstorming them as a team. We're looking for features we think will drive customer behavior in the desired direction. Have each team member write each idea, using a thick marker, on a sticky note. When time is up, ask everyone to post their notes to the wall and have the group arrange them into themes.
Assembling Your Subhypotheses
With all of your raw material created, you're ready to organize this material into a set of testable hypotheses. We like to create a table like the one in Figure 3-7 and then complete it by using the material we've brainstormed.
As you write your hypotheses, consider which persona(s) you're serving with your proposed solutions. It's not unusual to find solutions that serve more than one persona at a time. It's also not unusual to create a hypothesis in which one feature drives more than one outcome. When you see that happening, split the hypothesis into two parts--you want each statement to refer to only one outcome. The important thing to remember in this whole process is to keep your ideas specific enough so that you can create meaningful tests to see if each of your ideas hold water.

Figure 3-7. Hypothesis creation table
30
www.it-ebooks.info

Chapter 3

