Hooked: How to Build Habit-Forming Products
By Nir Eyal with Ryan Hoover

Copyright © 2014 Nir Eyal
All rights reserved.
ISBN: 1494277530 ISBN-13: 978-1494277536 Library of Congress Control Number: 2014900549
v 1.2

For Julie

TABLE OF CONTENTS Introduction 1. The Habit Zone 2. Trigger 3. Action 4. Variable Reward 5. Investment 6. What Are You Going To Do With This? 7. Case Study: The Bible App 8. Habit Testing and Where To Look For Habit-Forming Opportunities Appendix About the Authors Acknowledgements Contributors Notes and Sources
Note: Some sections of this book have appeared in articles previously published by the author.

INTRODUCTION
79 percent of smartphone owners check their device within 15 minutes of waking up every morning.[i] Perhaps more startling, fully one-third of Americans say they would rather give up sex than lose their cell phones.[ii]
A 2011 university study suggested people check their phones 34 times per day. [iii] However, industry insiders believe that number is closer to an astounding 150 daily sessions.[iv]
Face it, we're hooked. The technologies we use have turned into compulsions, if not full-fledged addictions. It's the impulse to check a message notification. It's the pull to visit YouTube, Facebook, or Twitter for just a few minutes, only to find yourself still tapping and scrolling an hour later. It's the urge you likely feel throughout your day but hardly notice. Cognitive psychologists define habits as, "automatic behaviors triggered by situational cues:" things we do with little or no conscious thought.[v] The products and services we use habitually alter our everyday behavior, just as their designers intended.[vi] Our actions have been engineered. How do companies, producing little more than bits of code displayed on a screen, seemingly control users' minds? What makes some products so habit-forming? For many products, forming habits is an imperative for survival. As infinite distractions compete for our attention, companies are learning to master novel tactics to stay relevant in users' minds. Today, amassing millions of users is no longer good enough. Companies increasingly find that their economic value is a function of the strength of the habits they create. In order to win the loyalty of their users and create a product that's regularly used, companies must learn not only what compels users to click, but also what makes them tick. Although some companies are just waking up to this new reality, others are already cashing in. By mastering habit-forming product design, the companies profiled in this book make their goods indispensable.
First-To-Mind Wins Companies who form strong user habits enjoy several benefits to their bottom line. These companies attach their product to "internal triggers." As a result, users show up without any external prompting.
Instead of relying on expensive marketing, habit-forming companies link their services to the users' daily routines and emotions.[vii] A habit is at work when users feel a tad bored and instantly open Twitter. They feel a pang of loneliness and before rational thought occurs, they are scrolling through their Facebook feeds. A question comes to mind and before searching their brains, they query Google. The first-to-mind solution wins. In chapter one, this book explores the competitive advantages of habit-forming products.
How do products create habits? The answer: They manufacture them. While fans of the television show Mad Men are familiar with how the ad industry once created consumer desire during Madison Avenue's golden era, those days are long gone. A multi-screen world of ad-wary consumers has rendered Don Draper's big budget brainwashing useless to all but the biggest brands.
Today, small startup teams can profoundly change behavior by guiding users through a series of experiences I call "hooks." The more often users run through these hooks, the more likely they are to form habits.

How I Got Hooked In 2008, I was among a team of Stanford MBAs starting a company backed by some of the brightest investors in Silicon Valley. Our mission was to build a platform for placing advertising into the booming world of online social games.
Notable companies were making billions of dollars selling virtual cows on digital farms while advertisers were spending huge sums of money to influence people to buy whatever they were peddling. I admit I didn't get it at first and found myself standing at the water's edge wondering, "How do they do it?"
At the intersection of these two industries dependent on mind manipulation, I embarked upon a journey to learn how products change our actions and, at times, create compulsions. How did these companies engineer user behavior? What were the moral implications of building potentially addictive products? Most importantly, could the same forces that made these experiences so compelling also be used to build products to improve people's lives?
Where could I find the blueprints for forming habits? To my disappointment, I found no guide. Businesses skilled in behavior design guarded their secrets and although I uncovered books, white papers, and blog posts tangentially related to the topic, there was no how-to manual for building habit-forming products.
I began documenting my observations of hundreds of companies to uncover patterns in user experience designs and functionality. Although every business had its unique flavor, I sought to identify the commonalities behind the winners and understand what was missing among the losers.
I looked for insights from academia: drawing upon consumer psychology, human-computer interaction, and behavioral economics research. In 2011, I began sharing what I learned and started working as a consultant to a host of Silicon Valley companies, from small startups to Fortune 500 enterprises. Each client provided an opportunity to test my theories, draw new insights, and refine my thinking. I began blogging about what I learned at NirAndFar.com and my essays were syndicated to other sites. Soon, readers began writing in with their own observations and examples.
In the fall of 2012, Dr. Baba Shiv and I designed and taught a class at the Stanford Graduate School of Business on the science of influencing human behavior. The next year, I partnered with Dr. Steph Habif to teach a similar course at the Hasso Plattner Institute of Design.
These years of distilled research and real-world experience resulted in the creation of the Hook Model: a four-phase process companies use to forms habits. Through consecutive hook cycles, successful products reach their ultimate goal of unprompted user engagement, bringing users back repeatedly, without depending on costly advertising or aggressive messaging.
While I draw many examples from technology companies given my industry background, hooks are everywhere -- in apps, sports, movies, games, and even our jobs. Hooks can be found in virtually any experience that burrows into our minds (and often our wallets). The four steps of the Hook Model provide the framework for the chapters of this book.

The Hook Model
1. Trigger A trigger is the actuator of behavior -- the spark plug in the engine. Triggers come in two types: external and internal.[viii] Habit-forming products start by alerting users with external triggers like an email, a website link, or the app icon on a phone.
For example, suppose Barbra, a young woman in Pennsylvania, happens to see a photo in her Facebook newsfeed taken by a family member from a rural part of the state. It's a lovely picture and since she is planning a trip there with her brother Johnny, the external trigger's call-to-action intrigues her and she clicks. By cycling through successive hooks, users begin to form associations with internal triggers, which attach to existing behaviors and emotions.
When users start to automatically cue their next behavior, the new habit becomes part of their everyday routine. Over time, Barbra associates Facebook with her need for social connection. Chapter two explores external and internal triggers, answering the question of how product designers determine which triggers are most effective. 2. Action Following the trigger comes the action: the behavior done in anticipation of a reward. The simple action of clicking on the interesting picture in her newsfeed takes Barbra to a website called Pinterest, a "pinboard-style photo-sharing" site.[ix]
This phase of the hook, as described in chapter three, draws upon the art and science of usability design to reveal how products drive specific user actions. Companies leverage two basic pulleys of human behavior to increase the likelihood of an action occurring: the ease of performing an action and the psychological motivation to do it.[x]
Once Barbra completes the simple action of clicking on the photo, she is dazzled by what she sees next.

3. Variable Reward What distinguishes the Hook Model from a plain vanilla feedback loop is the hook's ability to create a craving. Feedback loops are all around us, but predictable ones don't create desire. The unsurprising response of your fridge light turning on when you open the door doesn't drive you to keep opening it again and again. However, add some variability to the mix -- say a different treat magically appears in your fridge every time you open it -- and voila, intrigue is created.
Variable rewards are one of the most powerful tools companies implement to hook users; chapter four explains them in further detail. Research shows that levels of the neurotransmitter dopamine surge when the brain is expecting a reward.[xi] Introducing variability multiplies the effect, creating a focused state, which suppresses the areas of the brain associated with judgment and reason while activating the parts associated with wanting and desire.[xii] Although classic examples include slot machines and lotteries, variable rewards are prevalent in many other habit-forming products.
When Barbra lands on Pinterest, not only does she see the image she intended to find, but she is also served a multitude of other glittering objects. The images are related to what she is generally interested in -- namely things to see on her upcoming trip to rural Pennsylvania -- but there are other things that catch her eye as well. The exciting juxtaposition of relevant and irrelevant, tantalizing and plain, beautiful and common, sets her brain's dopamine system aflutter with the promise of reward. Now she's spending more time on Pinterest, hunting for the next wonderful thing to find. Before she knows it, she's spent 45 minutes scrolling.
Chapter four also explores why some people eventually lose their taste for certain experiences and how variability impacts their retention.
4. Investment The last phase of the Hook Model is where the user does a bit of work. The investment phase increases the odds that the user will make another pass through the hook cycle in the future. The investment occurs when the user puts something into the product of service such as time, data, effort, social capital, or money.
However, the investment phase isn't about users opening up their wallets and moving on with their day. Rather, the investment implies an action that improves the service for the next go-around. Inviting friends, stating preferences, building virtual assets, and learning to use new features are all investments users make to improve their experience. These commitments can be leveraged to make the trigger more engaging, the action easier, and the reward more exciting with every pass through the hook cycle. Chapter five delves into how investments encourage users to cycle through successive hooks.
As Barbra enjoys endlessly scrolling through the Pinterest cornucopia, she builds a desire to keep the things that delight her. By collecting items, she'll be giving the site data about her preferences. Soon she will follow, pin, re-pin, and make other investments, which serve to increase her ties to the site and prime her for future loops through the hook.
A New Superpower Habit-forming technology is already here, and it is being used to mold our lives. The fact that we have greater access to the web through our various connected devices -- smartphones and tablets, televisions, game consoles, and wearable technology -- gives companies far greater ability to affect our behavior.
As companies combine their increased connectivity to consumers, with the ability to collect, mine,

and process customer data at faster speeds, we are faced with a future where everything becomes potentially more habit-forming. As famed Silicon Valley investor Paul Graham writes, "...unless the forms of technological progress that produced these things are subject to different laws than technological progress in general, the world will get more addictive in the next 40 years than it did in the last 40."[xiii] Chapter six explores this new reality and discusses the morality of manipulation.
Recently, a blog reader emailed me, "If it can't be used for evil, it's not a superpower." He's right. And under this definition, building habit-forming products is indeed a superpower. If used irresponsibly, bad habits can quickly degenerate into mindless zombie-like addictions.
Did you recognize Barbra and her brother Johnny from the previous example? Zombie film buffs likely did. They are characters from the classic horror flick Night of the Living Dead, a story about people possessed by a mysterious force, which compels their every action.[xiv]
No doubt you've noticed the resurgence of the zombie genre over the past several years. Games like Resident Evil, television shows like The Walking Dead, and movies including World War Z , are a testament to the creatures' growing appeal. But why are zombies suddenly so fascinating? Perhaps technology's unstoppable progress -- ever more pervasive and persuasive -- has grabbed us in a fearful malaise at the thought of being involuntarily controlled.
Although the fear is palpable, we are like the heroes in every zombie film -- threatened but ultimately more powerful. I have come to learn that habit-forming products can do far more good than harm. "Choice architecture," as described by famed scholars Thaler, Sunstein, and Balz, offers techniques to influence people's decisions and affect behavioral outcomes. Ultimately though, the practice should be, "used to help nudge people to make better choices (as judged by themselves)."[xv] Accordingly, this book teaches innovators how to build products to help people do the things they already want to do but, for lack of a solution, don't do.
Hooked seeks to unleash the tremendous new powers innovators and entrepreneurs have to influence the everyday lives of billions of people. I believe the trinity of access, data, and speed presents unprecedented opportunities to create positive habits. When harnessed correctly, technology can enhance lives through healthful behaviors that improve our relationships, make us smarter, and increase productivity.
The Hook Model explains the rationale behind the design of many successful habit-forming products and services we use daily. Although not exhaustive given the vast amount of academic literature available, the model is intended to be a practical tool (rather than a theoretical one) made for entrepreneurs and innovators who aim to use habits for good. In this book, I have compiled the most relevant research, shared actionable insights, and provided a practical framework designed to increase the innovator's odds of success.
Hooks connect the user's problem with a company's solution frequently enough to form a habit. My goal is to provide you with a deeper understanding of how certain products change what we do, and by extension, who we are.
*** How to Use this Book At the end of each section, you'll find a few bulleted takeaways. Reviewing them, jotting them down in a notebook, or sharing them on a social network is a great way to pause, reflect, and reinforce what you have read.
Building a habit-forming product yourself? If so, the "Do This Now" sections at the end of

subsequent chapters will help guide your next steps.
*** Remember and Share
- Habits are defined as behaviors done with little or no conscious thought. - The convergence of access, data, and speed is making the world a more habit-forming place. - Businesses that create customer habits gain a significant competitive advantage. - The Hook Model describes an experience designed to connect the user's problem to a solution frequently enough to form a habit. - The Hook Model has four phases: trigger, action, variable reward, and investment.[xvi]

1. THE HABIT ZONE
When I run, I zone out. I don't think about what my body is doing and my mind usually wanders elsewhere. I find it relaxing and refreshing, and run about three mornings each week. Recently, I needed to take an overseas client call during my usual morning run time. "No biggie," I thought. "I can run in the evening instead." However, the time-shift created some peculiar behaviors that night.
I left the house for my run at dusk and as I was about to pass a woman taking out her trash, she made eye contact and smiled. I politely saluted with, "Good morning!" -- then caught my mistake. "I mean, good evening! Sorry!" I corrected myself, realizing I was about 10 hours off. She furrowed her brow and cracked a nervous smile.
Slightly embarrassed, I noted how my mind had been oblivious to the time of day. I chided myself not to do it again, but within a few minutes I passed another runner and again -- as if possessed -- I blurted out, "Good morning!" What was going on?
Back home, during my normal post-run shower, my mind began to wander again as it often does when I bathe. My brain's autopilot switch turned on and I proceeded with my daily routine, unaware of my actions.
It wasn't until I felt the nick of the razor cutting my face that I realized I had lathered-up and started shaving. Although it is something I do every morning, shaving was painfully unnecessary in the evening. And yet, I'd done it anyway, unknowingly.
The evening version of my morning run had triggered a behavioral script that instructed my body to carry out my usual, run-related activities -- all without mindful awareness. Such is the nature of ingrained habits -- behaviors done with little or no conscious thought -- which by some estimates, guide nearly half of our daily actions.[xvii]
Habits are one of the ways the brain learns complex behaviors. Neuroscientists believe habits give us the ability to focus our attention on other things by storing automatic responses in the basal ganglia, an area of the brain associated with involuntary actions.[xviii]
Habits form when the brain takes a shortcut and stops actively deliberating over what to do next.[xix] The brain quickly learns to codify behaviors that provide a solution to whatever situation it encounters.
For example, nail biting is a common behavior that occurs with little or no conscious thought. Initially, the biter might start chomping on her cuticles for a reason -- to remove an unsightly hangnail, for example. However, when the behavior occurs for no conscious purpose -- simply as an automatic response to a cue -- the habit is in control. For many persistent nail biters, the unconscious trigger is the unpleasant feeling of stress. The more the biter associates the act of nail chomping with the temporary relief it provides, the harder it becomes to change the conditioned response.
Like nail biting, many of our daily decisions are made simply because that was the way we have found resolution in the past. The brain automatically deduces that if the decision was a good one yesterday, then it is a safe bet again today and the action becomes a routine.
On my run, my brain had associated making eye contact with another person during my run with the standard "Good morning!" greeting, thus I automatically uttered these words no matter how inappropriately timed.
Why Habits are Good for Business

If our programmed behaviors are so influential in guiding our everyday actions, surely harnessing the same power of habits can be a boon for industry. Indeed, for those able to shape them in an effective way, habits can be very good for the bottom line.
Habit-forming products change user behavior and create unprompted user engagement. The aim is to influence customers to use your product on their own, again and again, without relying on overt calls-to-action such as ads or promotions. Once a habit is formed, the user is automatically triggered to use the product during routine events such as wanting to kill time while waiting in line.
However, the framework and practices explored in this book are not one-size-fits-all and do not apply to every business or industry. Entrepreneurs should evaluate how user habits impact their particular business model and goals. While the viability of some products depends on habit-formation to thrive, that is not always the case.
For example, companies selling infrequently bought or used products or services do not require habitual users -- at least, not in the sense of everyday engagement. Life insurance companies, for instance, leverage salespeople, advertising, and word-of-mouth referrals and recommendations to prompt consumers to buy policies. Once the policy is bought, there is nothing more the customer needs to do.
In this book, I refer to products in the context of businesses that require ongoing, unprompted user engagement and therefore need to build user habits. I exclude companies that compel customers to take action through other means.
Before diving into the mechanics of how habits are made, we must first understand their general importance and competitive benefits for businesses. Habit formation is good for business in several ways.
Increasing Customer Lifetime Value MBAs are taught that a business is worth the sum of its future profits. This benchmark is how investors calculate the fair price of a company's shares.
CEOs and their management teams are evaluated by their ability to increase the value of their stocks -- and therefore care deeply about the ability of their companies to generate free cash flow. Management's job, in the eyes of shareholders, is to implement strategies to grow future profits by increasing revenues or decreasing expenses.
Fostering consumer habits is an effective way to increase the value of a company by driving higher customer lifetime value (CLTV). CLTV is the amount of money made from a customer before she switches to a competitor, stops using the product, or dies. User habits increase how long and how frequently customers use a product, resulting in higher CLTV.
Some products have a very high CLTV. For example, credit card customers tend to stay loyal for a very long time and are worth a bundle. Hence, credit card companies are willing to spend a considerable amount of money acquiring new customers. This explains why you receive so many promotional offers, ranging from free gifts to airline bonus miles, to entice you to add another card or upgrade your current one. Your potential CLTV justifies a credit card company's marketing investment.
Providing Pricing Flexibility Renowned investor and Berkshire Hathaway CEO Warren Buffett once said, "You can determine the strength of a business over time by the amount of agony they go through in raising prices."[xx] Buffett and his partner, Charlie Munger, realized that as customers form routines around a product, they come

to depend upon it and become less price-sensitive. The duo have pointed to consumer psychology as the rationale behind their famed investments in companies like See's Candies and Coca-Cola.[xxi] Buffett and Munger understand that habits give companies greater flexibility to increase prices.
For example, in the free-to-play video game business, it is standard practice for game developers to delay asking users to pay money until they have played consistently and habitually. Once the compulsion to play is in place and the desire to progress in the game increases, converting users into paying customers is much easier. Selling virtual items, extra lives, and special powers is where the real money lies.
As of December 2013, more than 500 million people have downloaded Candy Crush Saga, a game played mostly on mobile devices. The game's "freemium" model converts some of those users into paying customers, netting the game's maker nearly a million dollars per day.[xxii]
This pattern also applies to other services. Take Evernote, the popular note-taking and archiving software, for example. The software is free to use but the company offers upgraded features like offline viewing and collaboration tools for a price -- which many devoted users are happy to pay.
Evernote's CEO Phil Libin shared some revealing insights about how the company turns nonpaying users into revenue generating ones.[xxiii] In 2011, Libin published a chart now known as the "smile graph." With the percentage of sign-ups represented on the Y-axis and time spent on the service on the X-axis, the chart showed that, although usage plummeted at first, it rocketed upward as people formed a habit of using the service. The resulting down and up curve gave the chart its emblematic smile shape (and Evernote's CEO a matching grin).
In addition, as usage increased over time, so did customers' willingness to pay. Libin noted that after the first month, only 0.5 percent of users paid for the service; however, this rate gradually increased. By month 33, 11 percent of users had started paying. At month 42, a remarkable 26 percent of customers were paying for something they had previously used for free.[xxiv]
Supercharging Growth Users who continually find value in a product are more likely to tell their friends about it. Frequent usage creates more opportunities to encourage people to invite their friends, broadcast content, and share through word-of-mouth. Hooked users become brand evangelists -- megaphones for your company, bringing in new users at little or no cost.
Products with higher user engagement also have the potential to grow faster than their rivals. Case in point: Facebook leapfrogged its competitors, including MySpace and Friendster, even though it was relatively late to the social networking party. Although its competitors both had healthy growth rates and millions of users by the time Mark Zuckerberg's fledgling site launched beyond the closed doors of academia, his company came to dominate the industry.
Facebook's success was, in part, a result of what I call the more is more principle -- more frequent usage drives more viral growth. As tech-entrepreneur turned venture capitalist, David Skok points out, "The most important factor to increasing growth is ... Viral Cycle Time." [xxv] Viral Cycle Time is the amount of time it takes a user to invite another user, and it can have a massive impact. "For example, after 20 days with a cycle time of two days, you will have 20,470 users," Skok writes. "But if you halved that cycle time to one day, you would have over 20 million users! It is logical that it would be better to have more cycles occur, but it is less obvious just how much better."
Having a greater proportion of users returning to a service daily, dramatically increases Viral Cycle Time for two reasons: First, daily users initiate loops more often (think tagging a friend in a

Facebook photo); second, more daily active users means more people to respond and react to each invitation. The cycle not only perpetuates the process -- with higher and higher user engagement, it accelerates it.
Sharpening the Competitive Edge User habits are a competitive advantage. Products that change customer routines are less susceptible to attacks from other companies.
Many entrepreneurs fall into the trap of building products that are only marginally better than existing solutions, hoping their innovation will be good enough to woo customers away from existing products. But when it comes to shaking consumers' old habits, these naive entrepreneurs often find that better products don't always win -- especially if a large number of users have already adopted a competing product.
A classic paper by John Gourville, a professor of marketing at Harvard Business School, stipulates that, "Many innovations fail because consumers irrationally overvalue the old while companies irrationally overvalue the new."[xxvi]
Gourville claims that for new entrants to stand a chance, they can't just be better, they must be nine times better. Why such a high bar? Because old habits die hard and new products or services need to offer dramatic improvements to shake users out of old routines. Gourville writes that products that require a high degree of behavior change are doomed to fail even if the benefits of using the new product are clear and substantial.
For example, the technology I am using to write this book is inferior to existing alternatives in many ways. I'm referring to the QWERTY keyboard which was first developed in the 1870s for the now-ancient typewriter. QWERTY was designed with commonly used characters spaced far apart. This layout prevented typists from jamming the metal typebars of early machines.[xxvii] Of course, this physical limitation is an anachronism in the digital age, yet QWERTY keyboards remain the standard despite the invention of far better layouts.
Professor August Dvorak's keyboard design, for example, placed vowels in the center row, increasing typing speed and accuracy. Though patented in 1932, the Dvorak Simplified Keyboard was written off.
QWERTY survives due to the high costs of changing user behavior. When first introduced to the keyboard, we chicken-peck at the keys one-by-one, usually with just a finger or two. After months of practice, we instinctively learn to activate all our fingers in response to our thoughts with little to no conscious effort, and the words begin to flow effortlessly from mind to screen. But switching to an unfamiliar keyboard -- even if more efficient -- would force us to re-learn how to type. Fat chance!
As we will learn in chapter five, users also increase their dependency on habit-forming products by storing value in them -- further reducing the likelihood of switching to an alternative. For example, every email sent and received using Google's Gmail is stored indefinitely, providing users with a lasting repository of past conversations. New followers on Twitter increase users' clout and amplify their ability to transmit messages to their communities. Memories and experiences captured on Instagram are added to one's digital scrapbook. Switching to a new email service, social network, or photo-sharing app becomes more difficult the more people use them. The non-transferrable value created and stored inside these services discourages users from leaving.
Ultimately, user habits increase a business's return on investment. Higher customer lifetime value, greater pricing flexibility, supercharged growth, and a sharpened competitive edge together equal a more powerful bang for the company's buck.

***
Building the Mind Monopoly While user habits are a boon to companies fortunate enough to engender them, their existence inherently makes success less likely for new innovations and startups trying to disrupt the status quo. The fact is, successfully changing long-term user habits is exceptionally rare.
Altering behavior requires not only an understanding of how to persuade people to act -- for example, the first time they land on a webpage -- but also necessitates getting them to repeat behaviors for long periods, ideally for the rest of their lives.
Companies that succeed in building a habit-forming business are often associated with gamechanging, wildly successful innovation. But like any discipline, habit design has rules and caveats that define and explain why some products change lives while others do not.
For one, new behaviors have a short half-life, as our minds tend to revert to our old ways of thinking and doing. Experiments show that lab animals habituated to new behaviors tend to regress to their first learned behaviors over time.[xxviii] To borrow a term from accounting, behaviors are LIFO -- "last in, first out." In other words, the habits you've most recently acquired are also the ones most likely to go soonest.
This helps explain the overwhelming evidence that people rarely change their habits for long. Two-thirds of alcoholics who complete a rehabilitation program will pick up the bottle, and their old habits, within a year's time.[xxix] Research shows that nearly everyone who loses weight on a diet gains back the pounds within two years.[xxx]
The enemy of forming new habits is past behaviors, and research suggests that old habits die hard. Even when we change our routines, neural pathways remain etched in our brains, ready to be reactivated when we lose focus.[xxxi] This presents an especially difficult challenge for product designers trying to create new lines or businesses based on forming new habits.
For new behaviors to really take hold, they must occur often. In a recent study at the University College London, researchers followed participants as they attempted to form a habit of flossing their teeth.[xxxii] As one of its findings, the study concluded that the more frequently the new behavior occurred, the stronger the habit became. Like flossing, frequent engagement with a product -- especially over a short period of time -- increases the likelihood of forming new routines.
Google Search provides an example of a service built upon a frequent behavior that helped create users' habits. If you're skeptical that Google is habit-forming (and you are a frequent Google user), just try using Bing. In a head-to-head comparison of the efficacy of an incognito search, the products are nearly identical.[xxxiii] Even if the geniuses at Google have in fact perfected a faster algorithm, the time saved is imperceptible to everyone but robots and Mister Spock. Milliseconds matter, but they don't hook users.
So why haven't more Google users switched to Bing? Habits keep users loyal. If a user is familiar with the Google interface, switching to Bing requires cognitive effort. Although many aspects of Bing are similar to Google, even a slight change in pixel placement forces the would-be user to learn a new way of interacting with the site. Adapting to the differences in the Bing interface is what actually slows down regular Google users and makes Bing feel inferior, not the technology itself.
Internet searches occur so frequently that Google is able to cement itself as the one and only solution in the habituated user's mind. Users no longer need to think about whether or not to use Google, they just do. Furthermore, whenever the company can identify the user through tracking

technology, it improves search results based on past behaviors to deliver a more accurate and personalized experience, reinforcing the user's connection with the search engine. The more the product is used, the better the algorithm gets and thus, the more it is used. The result is a virtuous cycle of habit-driven behavior resulting in Google's market domination.[xxxiv]
Habit as Strategy Sometimes a behavior does not occur as frequently as flossing or Googling, but it still becomes a habit. For an infrequent action to become a habit, the user must perceive a high degree of utility, either from gaining pleasure or avoiding pain.
Take Amazon as an example: The e-tailer has its sights set on becoming the world's one-stop shop. Amazon is so confident in its ability to form user habits that it sells and runs ads for directly competitive products on its site.[xxxv] Customers often see the item they are about to buy listed at a cheaper price and can click away to transact elsewhere. To some, this sounds like a formula for disaster. But to Amazon, it is a shrewd business strategy.
Not only does Amazon make money from the ads it runs from competing businesses, but it also utilizes other companies' marketing dollars to form a habit in the shopper's mind. Amazon seeks to become the solution to a frequently occurring pain-point -- the customer's desire to find the items they want.
By addressing shoppers' price concerns, Amazon earns loyalty even if it doesn't make the sale, and comes across as trustworthy in the process. The tactic is backed by a 2003 study, which demonstrated that consumers' preference for an online retailer increases when they are offered competitive price information.[xxxvi] The technique has also been used by Progressive, the car insurance company, to drive over $15 billion of annual insurance sales, up from just $3.4 billion before the tactic was implemented.
By allowing users to comparison shop from within the site, Amazon provides tremendous perceived utility to its customers. Although shopping on Amazon may not occur as frequently as searching on Google, the company solidifies its place as the default solution to customers' purchasing needs with each successful transaction. In fact, people are so comfortable comparison shopping on Amazon that they frequently use the company's mobile app to check prices when standing in the aisles of real stores -- often making a purchase from inside a competing retailer.[xxxvii]
In the Habit Zone A company can begin to determine its product's habit-forming potential by plotting two factors: frequency (how often the behavior occurs) and perceived utility (how useful and rewarding the behavior is in the user's mind over alternative solutions).
Googling occurs multiple times per day, but any particular search is negligibly better than rival services like Bing. Conversely, using Amazon may be a less frequent occurrence, but users receive great value knowing they'll find whatever they need at the one and only "everything store."[xxxviii]
As represented in figure 1, a behavior that occurs with enough frequency and perceived utility enters the Habit Zone, helping to make it a default behavior. If either of these factors falls short and the behavior lies below the threshold, it is less likely that the desired behavior will become a habit.
Note that the line slopes downward but never quite reaches the perceived utility axis. Some behaviors never become habits because they do not occur frequently enough. No matter how much utility is involved, infrequent behaviors remain conscious actions and never create the automatic

response that is characteristic of habits. On the other axis however, even a behavior which provides minimal perceived benefit can become a habit simply because it occurs frequently.
Figure 1 This concept is meant to be a guiding theory and the scale of the illustration is intentionally left blank. Unfortunately for companies, research thus far has not found a universal timescale for turning all behaviors into habits. A 2010 study found that some habits can be formed in a matter of weeks while others can take more than five months.[xxxix] The researchers also found that the complexity of the behavior and how important the habit was to the person greatly affected how quickly the routine was formed. There are few rules when it comes to answering "how frequent is frequent enough?" and the answer is likely specific to each business and behavior. However, as the previously mentioned flossing study demonstrates, we know that higher frequency is better. Think of the products and services you would identify as habit-forming. Most of these are used daily, if not multiple times per day. Now, let's explore why we use these products so frequently.
*** Vitamins vs. Painkillers It's never been easier to launch a new product or service, yet most new endeavors fail. Why? Products fail for a variety of reasons: Companies run out of funding, products enter markets too early or too late, the marketplace doesn't need what companies are offering, or founders simply give up. Just as failure has many causes, success too can be attributed to a variety of factors. However, one thing is common to all successful innovations -- they solve problems. That may seem obvious, but understanding the kind of problem a new product solves can be a topic of much debate.
"Are you building a vitamin or painkiller?" is a common, almost clichéd question many investors ask founders eager to cash their first venture capital check. The correct answer, from the perspective of most investors, is the latter: a painkiller. Likewise, innovators in companies big and small are

constantly asked to prove their idea is important enough to merit the time and money needed to build it. Gatekeepers such as investors and managers want to invest in solving real problems -- or, meeting immediate needs -- by backing painkillers.
Painkillers solve an obvious need, relieving a specific pain and often have quantifiable markets. Think Tylenol, the brand name version of acetaminophen, and the product's promise of reliable relief. It's the kind of ready-made solution for which people are happy to pay.
In contrast, vitamins do not necessarily solve an obvious pain-point. Instead they appeal to users' emotional rather than functional needs. When we take our multivitamin each morning, we don't really know if it is actually making us healthier. In fact, recent evidence shows taking multivitamins may actually be doing more harm than good.[xl]
But we don't really care, do we? Efficacy is not why we take vitamins. Taking a vitamin is a "check it off your list" behavior we measure in terms of psychological, rather than physical, relief. We feel satisfied that we are doing something good for our bodies -- even if we can't tell how much good it is actually doing us.
Unlike a painkiller, which we can not function without, missing a few days of vitamin popping, say while on vacation, is no big deal. So perhaps managers and investors know best? Perhaps building painkillers, not vitamins, is always the right strategy.
Not so fast. Let's consider a few of today's hottest consumer technology companies -- say Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, and Pinterest. What are they selling -- vitamins or painkillers? Most people would guess vitamins, thinking users aren't doing much of anything important other than perhaps seeking a quick boost of social validation. After all, think back to before you first started using these services. No one ever woke up in the middle of the night screaming, "I need something to help me update my status!" But like so many innovations, we did not know we needed them until they became part of our everyday lives. Before making up your mind on the vitamin or painkiller debate for some of the world's most successful tech companies, consider this idea: A habit is when not doing an action causes a bit of pain. It is important to clarify that the term "pain," as it is frequently used in business school and marketing books, is somewhat hyperbolic. In reality, the experience we are talking about is more similar to an "itch," a feeling that manifests within the mind and causes discomfort until it is satisfied. The habit-forming products we use are simply there to provide some sort of relief. Using a technology or product to scratch the itch provides faster satisfaction than ignoring it. Once we come to depend on a tool, nothing else will do. My answer to the vitamin or painkiller question is that habit-forming technologies are both. These services seem, at first, to be offering nice-to-have vitamins, but once the habit is established, they provide an ongoing pain remedy. Seeking pleasure and avoiding pain are two key motivators in all species. When we feel discomfort, we seek to escape the uncomfortable sensation. In the next chapter, we will explore how emotions, often negative ones, trigger users to reach for solutions. But for now, the important thing to remember is that habit-forming products create associations in users' minds -- and that the solution to their pain may be found in your product's use. We'll discuss the morality of manipulation in chapter eight; however, it is worth noting that although some people use the terms interchangeably, habits are not the same things as addictions. Addictions are persistent, compulsive dependencies on a behavior or substance. Addictions, by definition, are self-destructive. Thus, it is irresponsible to make products that rely on creating and

maintaining user addiction, since doing so would mean intentionally harming people. A habit, on the other hand, is a behavior that can have a positive influence on a person's life.
Habits can be healthy or unhealthy, and you likely have several helpful habits you carry out throughout your day. Did you brush your teeth today? Take a shower? Did you express gratitude by saying "thanks?" Or in my case, say "Good morning" while on an evening jog? These are common behaviors done with little or no deliberation -- they are habits.
*** Diving Into The Hook Model Ready to learn more about creating positive user habits? Read on to gain a deeper understanding of the Hook Model: A simple yet powerful way to help your customers form habits that connect their problem with your solution.
In the next chapters, we dive into each phase of the Hook Model. Along the way, I will provide examples you can use in the design of your own product or service. By learning a few fundamentals of how the mind works, you will increase your odds of building the right product faster.
By progressing users through the four steps of the Hook Model, -- trigger, action, variable reward, and investment -- hooks form habits.
*** Remember and Share
- For some businesses, forming habits is a critical component to success, but not every business requires habitual user engagement.
- When successful, forming strong user habits can have several business benefits including: higher customer lifetime value, greater pricing flexibility, supercharged growth, and a sharper competitive edge.
- Habits can not form outside the "Habit Zone," where the behavior occurs with enough frequency and perceived utility.
- Habit-forming products often start as nice-to-haves (vitamins) but once the habit is formed, they become must-haves (painkillers).
- Habit-forming products alleviate users' pain by relieving a pronounced itch. - Designing habit-forming products is a form of manipulation. Product builders would benefit from a bit of introspection before attempting to hook users to make sure they are building healthy habits, not unhealthy addictions (more to come on this topic in chapter eight).
*** Do This Now If you are building a habit-forming product, write down the answers to these questions:
- What habits does your business model require? - What problem are users turning to your product to solve? - How do users currently solve that problem and why does it need a solution? - How frequently do you expect users to engage with your product? - What user behavior do you want to make into a habit?

2. TRIGGER
Yin (not her real name) is in her mid-twenties, lives in Palo Alto, and attends Stanford University. She has all the composure and polish you'd expect of a student at a prestigious school, yet she succumbs to a persistent habit throughout her day. She can't help it; she is compulsively hooked on Instagram.
The photo and video-sharing social network, purchased by Facebook for $1 billion in 2012, has captured the minds and attention of Yin and 150 million other users like her. [xli] The company's acquisition demonstrates the increasing power of -- and immense monetary value created by -- habit-forming technology. Of course, the Instagram purchase price was driven by a host of factors, including a rumored bidding war for the company.[xlii] But at its core, Instagram is an example of an enterprising team -- conversant in psychology as much as technology -- that unleashed a habitforming product on users who subsequently made it a part of their daily routines.[xliii]
Yin doesn't realize she's hooked, although she admits she regularly snaps and posts dozens of pictures per day using the app. "It's just fun," she says as she reviews her latest collection of moody snapshots filtered to look like they were taken in the late 1970s. "I don't have a problem or anything. I just use it whenever I see something cool. I feel I need to grab it before it's gone."
What formed Yin's Instagram habit? How did this seemingly simple app become such an important part of her life? As we will soon learn, habits like Yin's are formed over time, but the chain reaction that forms a habit always starts with a trigger.
Habits are not Created, They are Built Upon Habits are like pearls. Oysters create natural pearls by accumulating layer upon layer of a nacre called mother-of-pearl, eventually forming the smooth treasure over several years. But what causes the nacre to begin forming a pearl? The arrival of a tiny irritant, such as a piece of grit or an unwelcome parasite, triggers the oyster's system to begin blanketing the invader with layers of shimmery coating. Similarly, new habits need a foundation upon which to build. Triggers provide the basis for sustained behavior change. Reflect on your own life for a moment. What woke you up this morning? What caused you to brush your teeth? What brought you to read this book? Triggers take the form of obvious cues like the morning alarm, but also come as more subtle, sometimes subconscious signals that just as effectively influence our daily behavior. A trigger is the actuator of behavior -- the grit in the oyster that precipitates the pearl. Whether we are cognizant of them or not, triggers move us to take action. Triggers come in two types: external and internal.
External Triggers Habit-forming technologies start changing behavior by first cueing users with a call-to-action. This sensory stimuli is delivered through any number of things in our environment. External triggers are embedded with information, which tells the user what to do next. An external trigger communicates the next action the user should take. Often, the desired action is made explicitly clear. For example, what external triggers do you see in this Coca-Cola vending

machine in figure 2?
Figure 2 Take a close look at the welcoming man in the image. He is offering you a refreshing Coke. The text "Thirsty?" below the image tells you what the man in the photo is asking and prompts the next expected action of inserting money and selecting a beverage. Online, an external trigger may take the form of a prominent button, such as the large orange "Log in to Mint" prompt in the email from Mint.com in figure 3. Here again, the user is given explicit instructions about what action to take after reading the email: Click on that big bright button.
Figure 3 Notice how prominent and clear the intended action is in the email from Mint? The company could have included several other triggers such as prompts to check your bank balance, view credit card deals, or set financial goals. Instead, since this is an important account alert email, Mint has reduced the available actions to a single click: Logging in to view and fix your account. More choices require the user to evaluate multiple options. Too many choices or irrelevant options

can cause hesitation, confusion, or worse, abandonment.[xliv] Reducing the thinking required to take the next action increases the likelihood of the desired behavior occurring unconsciously. We'll explore this further in the next chapter.
The Coca-Cola vending machine and Mint.com email provide good examples of explicit external triggers. However, external triggers can also convey implicit information about the next desired user action. For example, we've all learned that website links are for clicking and app icons are for tapping. The only purpose for these common visual triggers is to prompt the user to action. As a readily accepted aspect of interface design, these calls to action don't need to tell people how to use them, the information is embedded.
Types of External Triggers Companies can utilize four types of external triggers to move users to complete desired actions:
1. Paid Triggers Advertising, search engine marketing, and other paid channels are commonly used to get users' attention and prompt them to act. Paid triggers can be effective but costly ways to keep users coming back. Habit-forming companies tend not to rely on paid triggers for very long, if at all. Imagine if Facebook or Twitter needed to buy an ad to prompt users to revisit their sites -- these companies would soon go broke.
Since paying for re-engagement is unsustainable for most business models, companies generally use paid triggers to acquire new users and then leverage other triggers to bring them back.
2. Earned Triggers Earned triggers are free in that they can not be bought directly, but they often require investment in the form of time spent on public and media relations. Favorable press mentions, hot viral videos, and featured App Store placements are all effective ways to gain attention. Companies may be lulled into thinking that related downloads or sales spikes signal long-term success, yet awareness generated by earned triggers can be short-lived.
For earned triggers to drive ongoing user acquisition, companies must keep their products in the limelight -- a difficult and unpredictable task.
3. Relationship Triggers One person telling others about a product or service can be a highly effective external trigger for action. Whether through an electronic invitation, a Facebook "Like," or old fashioned word-of-mouth, product referrals from friends and family are often a key component of technology diffusion.
Relationship triggers can create the viral hypergrowth entrepreneurs and investors lust after. Sometimes relationship triggers drive growth because people love to tell each other about a wonderful offer.
For example, it is hard to top PayPal's viral success of the late 1990s.[xlv] PayPal knew that once users started sending each other money online they would realize the tremendous value of the service. The allure that someone just sent you money was a huge incentive to open an account, and PayPal's growth spread because it was both viral and useful.
Unfortunately, some companies utilize viral loops and relationship triggers in unethical ways by deploying so-called "dark patterns." When designers intentionally trick users into inviting friends or

blasting a message to their social networks, they may see some initial growth, but it comes at the expense of the social currency of users, including their goodwill and trust. When people discover they've been duped, they vent their frustration and stop using the product.
Proper use of relationship triggers requires building an engaged user base that is enthusiastic about sharing the benefits of the product with others.
4. Owned Triggers Owned triggers consume a piece of real-estate in the user's environment. They consistently show up in daily life and it is ultimately up to the user to opt into allowing these triggers to appear.
For example, an app icon on the user's phone screen, an email newsletter to which the user subscribes, or an app update notification only appear if the user wants it there. As long as the user agrees to receive a trigger, the company that sets the trigger owns a share of the user's attention.
Owned triggers are only set after users sign up for an account, submit their email address, install an app, opt into newsletters, or otherwise indicate they want to continue receiving communications.
While paid, earned, and relationship triggers drive new user acquisition, owned triggers prompt repeat engagement until a habit is formed. Without owned triggers and users' tacit permission to enter their attentional space, it is difficult to cue users frequently enough to change their behavior.
*** But external triggers are only the first step. The ultimate goal of all external triggers is to propel users into and through the Hook Model so that, after successive cycles, they do not need further prompting from external triggers. When users form habits, they are cued by a different kind of trigger: internal triggers.
Internal Triggers When a product becomes tightly coupled with a thought, an emotion, or a pre-existing routine, it leverages an internal trigger. Unlike external triggers, which use sensory stimuli like a morning alarm clock or giant "Log-In Now" button, you can't see, touch, or hear an internal trigger. Internal triggers manifest automatically in your mind. Connecting internal triggers with a product is the brass ring of consumer technology.
For Yin, the young woman with the Instagram habit, her favorite photo app manufactured a predictable response cued by an internal trigger. Through repeated conditioning, a connection was formed between Yin's need to capture images of the things around her and the app on her ever-present mobile device.
Emotions, particularly negative ones, are powerful internal triggers and greatly influence our daily routines. Feelings of boredom, loneliness, frustration, confusion, and indecisiveness often instigate a slight pain or irritation and prompt an almost instantaneous and often mindless action to quell the negative sensation. For instance, Yin often uses Instagram when she fears a special moment will be lost forever.
The severity of the discomfort may be relatively minor -- perhaps her fear is below the perceptibility of consciousness -- but that's exactly the point. Our life is filled with tiny stressors and we're usually unaware of our habitual reactions to these nagging issues.
Positive emotions can also serve as internal triggers, and may even be triggered themselves by a need to satisfy something that is bothering us. After all, we use products to find solutions to problems. The desire to be entertained can be thought of as the need to satiate boredom. A need to share good

news can also be thought of as an attempt to find and maintain social connections. As product designers, it is our goal to solve these problems and eliminate pain -- to scratch the
user's itch. Users who find a product that alleviates their pain will form strong, positive associations with the product over time. After continued use, bonds begin to form -- like the layers of nacre in an oyster -- between the product and the user whose need it satisfies. Gradually, these bonds cement into a habit as users turn to your product when experiencing certain internal triggers.
A study at the Missouri University of Science and Technology illustrates how tech solutions can provide frequent psychological relief.[xlvi] In 2011, a group of 216 undergraduates volunteered to have their Internet activity anonymously tracked. Over the course of the academic year, the researchers measured the frequency with which these students used the web and what they were doing online.
At the end of the study, the researchers compared anonymized data of students who visited the university's health services to treat symptoms of depression. "We identified several features of Internet usage that correlated with depression," wrote Sriram Chellappan, one of the study's authors.[xlvii] "For example, participants with depressive symptoms tended to engage in very high email usage...Other characteristic features of depressive Internet behavior included increased amounts of video watching, gaming, and chatting."
The study demonstrated that people suffering from symptoms of depression used the Internet more. Why is that? One hypothesis is that those with depression experience negative emotions more frequently than the general population and seek relief by turning to technology to lift their mood.
Consider, perhaps, your own emotion-cued behaviors. What do you do in response to your internal triggers?
When bored, many people seek excitement and turn to dramatic news headlines. When we feel overly stressed we seek calm, perhaps finding relief in sites like Pinterest. When we feel lonely, destinations like Facebook and Twitter provide instant social connections.
To ameliorate the sensation of uncertainty, Google is just a click away. Email, perhaps the mother of all habit-forming technology, is a go-to solution for many of our daily agitations, from validating our importance (or even, simply our existence) by checking to see if someone needs us, to providing an escape from life's more mundane moments.
Once hooked, using these products does not always require an explicit call-to-action. Instead, they rely upon our automatic responses to feelings that precipitate the desired behavior. Products that attach to these internal triggers provide users with quick relief. Once a technology has created an association in users' minds that the product is the solution of choice, they return on their own, no longer needing prompts from external triggers.
In the case of internal triggers, the information about what to do next is encoded as a learned association in the user's memory.
But the association between an internal trigger and your product is not formed overnight. It can take weeks or months of frequent usage for internal triggers to latch onto cues. New habits are sparked by external triggers, but associations with internal triggers are what keeps users hooked.
As Yin said, "I just use it whenever I see something cool." By thoughtfully moving users from external to internal triggers, Instagram designed a persistent routine in people's lives. A need is triggered in Yin's mind every time a moment is worth holding onto, and for her, the immediate solution is Instagram. Yin no longer requires an external stimulus to prompt her to use the app -- the internal trigger happens on its own.
Building for Triggers

Products that successfully create habits soothe the user's pain by laying claim to a particular feeling. To do so, product designers must know their user's internal triggers -- that is, the pain they seek to solve. But finding customers' internal triggers requires learning more about people than what they can tell you in a survey. It requires digging deeper to understand how your users feel.
The ultimate goal of a habit-forming product is to solve the user's pain by creating an association so that the user identifies the company's product or service as the source of relief.
First, the company must identify the particular frustration or pain-point in emotional terms, rather than product features. But how does a designer go about uncovering the source of a user's pain? The best place to start is to learn the drivers behind successful habit-forming products -- not to copy them, but to understand how they solve users' problems. Doing so will give you practice in diving deeper into the mind of the consumer and alert you to common human needs and desires.
As Evan Williams, co-founder of Blogger and Twitter said, the Internet is, "a giant machine designed to give people what they want."[xlviii] Williams continued, "We often think the Internet enables you to do new things ... But people just want to do the same things they've always done."
These common needs are timeless and universal. But talking to users to reveal these wants will likely prove ineffective since they themselves don't know which emotions motivate them. People just don't think in these terms. You'll often find that people's "declared preferences" -- what they say they want -- are far different from their "revealed preferences" -- what they actually do.
As Erika Hall, author of Just Enough Research writes, "When the research focuses on what people actually do (watch cat videos) rather than what they wish they did (produce cinema-quality home movies) it actually expands possibilities."[xlix] Looking for discrepancies exposes opportunities. Why do people really send SMS messages? Why do they take photos? What role does watching television or sports play in their lives? Ask yourself what pain these habits solve and what the user might be feeling right before one of these actions.
What would your user want to achieve by using your solution? Where and when will they use it? What emotions influence their use and will trigger them to action?
Jack Dorsey, co-founder of Twitter and Square, shared how his companies answer these important questions, "[If] you want to build a product that is relevant to folks, you need to put yourself in their shoes and you need to write a story from their side. So, we spend a lot of time writing what's called user narratives."[l]
Dorsey goes on to describe how he tries to truly understand his user, "He is in the middle of Chicago and they go to a coffee store ... This is the experience they're going to have. It reads like a play. It's really, really beautiful. If you do that story well, then all of the prioritization, all of the product, all of the design and all the coordination that you need to do with these products just falls out naturally because you can edit the story and everyone can relate to the story from all levels of the organization, engineers to operations to support to designers to the business side of the house."
Dorsey believes a clear description of users -- their desires, emotions, the context with which they use the product -- is paramount to building the right solution. In addition to Dorsey's user narratives, tools like customer development,[li] usability studies, and empathy maps[lii] are examples of methods for learning about potential users.
One method is to try asking the question "why" as many times as it takes to get to an emotion. Usually this will happen by the fifth "why." This is a technique adapted from the Toyota Production System described by Taiichi Ohno as the "5 Whys Method." Ohno wrote that it was "the basis of Toyota's scientific approach ... by repeating `why?' five times, the nature of the problem as well as

its solution becomes clear."[liii] When it comes to figuring out why people use habit-forming products, internal triggers are the root
cause, and "why?" is a question that can help drill right to the core. For example, let's say we're building a fancy new technology called email for the first time. The
target user is a busy middle manager named Julie. We've built a detailed narrative of our user, Julie, that helps us answer the following series of "whys:"
Why #1: Why would Julie want to use email? Answer: So she can send and receive messages. Why #2: Why would she want to do that? Answer: Because she wants to share and receive information quickly. Why #3: Why does she want to do that? Answer: To know what's going on in the lives of her co-workers, friends, and family. Why #4: Why does she need to know that? Answer: To know if someone needs her. Why #5: Why would she care about that? Answer: She fears being out of the loop.
Now we've got something! Fear is a powerful internal trigger and we can design our solution to help calm Julie's fear. Of course, we might have come to another conclusion by starting with a different persona, varying the narrative or coming up with different hypothetical answers along the chain of "whys." Only an accurate understanding of our user's underlying needs can inform the product requirements.
But now that we have an understanding of the user's pain, we can move on to the next step of testing our product to see if it solves her problem.
Unpacking Instagram's Triggers A large component of Instagram's success -- and what brings its millions of users back nearly every day -- is the company's ability to understand its users' triggers. For people like Yin, Instagram is a harbor for emotions and inspirations, a virtual memoir preserved in pixels. Yin's habitual use of the service started with an external trigger - a recommendation from a friend and weeks of repetitious use before she became a regular user. Every time Yin snaps a picture, she shares it with her friends on Facebook and Twitter. Consider the first time you saw an Instagram photo. Did it catch your attention? Did it make you curious? Did it call you to action? These photos serve as a relationship external trigger, raising awareness and serving as a cue for others to install and use the app. But Instagram photos shared on Facebook and Twitter were not the only external triggers driving new users. Others learned of the app from the media and bloggers, or through the featured placement Apple granted Instagram in the App Store -- all earned external triggers. Once installed, Instagram benefited from owned external triggers. The app icon on users' phone screens and push notifications about their friends' postings served to call them back. With repeated use, Instagram formed strong associations with internal triggers, and what was once a brief distraction became an intraday routine for many users. It is the fear of losing a special moment that instigates a pang of stress. This negative emotion is the

internal trigger that brings Instagram users back to the app to alleviate this pain by capturing a photo. As users continue to use the service, new internal triggers form.
But Instagram is more than a camera replacement, it is a social network. The app helps users dispel boredom by connecting them with others, sharing photos, and swapping lighthearted banter.[liv]
Like many social networking sites, Instagram also alleviates the increasingly recognizable "pain" known as "fear of missing out," or FOMO. For Instagram, associations with internal triggers provide a foundation to form new habits.
Now it is time to understand the mechanics of connecting the user's problem with your solution by utilizing the next step in the Hook Model. In the next chapter, we'll find out how moving people from triggers to actions is critical in establishing new routines.
*** Remember and Share
- Triggers cue the user to take action and are the first step in the Hook Model. - Triggers come in two types -- external and internal. - External triggers tell the user what to do next by placing information within the user's environment. - Internal triggers tell the user what to do next through associations stored in the user's memory. - Negative emotions frequently serve as internal triggers. - To build a habit-forming product, makers need to understand which user emotions may be tied to internal triggers and know how to leverage external triggers to drive the user to action.
*** Do This Now Refer to the answers you came up with in the last "Do This Now" section to complete the following exercises:
- Who is your product's user? - What is the user doing right before your intended habit? - Come up with three internal triggers that could cue your user to action. Refer to the "5 Whys Method" described in this chapter. - Which internal trigger does your user experience most frequently? - Finish this brief narrative using the most frequent internal trigger and the habit you are designing: "Every time the user (internal trigger), he/she (first action of intended habit)." - Refer back to the question about what the user is doing right before the first action of the habit. What might be places and times to send an external trigger? - How can you couple an external trigger as closely as possible to when the user's internal trigger fires? - Think of at least three conventional ways to trigger your user with current technology (emails, notifications, text messages, etc.). Then stretch yourself to come up with at least three crazy, or currently impossible, ideas for ways to trigger your user (wearable computers, biometric sensors, carrier pigeons, etc.). You may find that your crazy ideas spur some new approaches, which may not be so crazy after all. In a few years, new technologies will create all sorts of currently unimaginable triggering opportunities.

3. ACTION
The next step in The Hook is the action phase. The trigger, driven by internal or external cues, informs the user of what to do next; however, if the user does not take action, the trigger is useless. To initiate action, doing must be easier than thinking. Remember, a habit is a behavior done with little or no conscious thought. The more effort -- either physical or mental -- required to perform the desired action, the less likely it is to occur.
Action vs. Inaction If action is paramount to habit-formation, how can a product designer influence users to act? Is there a formula for behavior? It turns out there is.
While there are many theories about what drives human behaviors, Dr. BJ Fogg, Director of the Persuasive Technology Lab at Stanford University, has developed a model that serves as a relatively simple way to understand what drives our actions.
Fogg posits that there are three ingredients required to initiate any and all behaviors: (1) the user must have sufficient motivation; (2) the user must have the ability to complete the desired action; and (3) a trigger must be present to activate the behavior.
The Fogg Behavior Model is represented in a formula, B = MAT, which represents that a given behavior will occur when motivation, ability, and a trigger are present at the same time and in sufficient degrees.[lv] If any component of this formula is missing or inadequate, the user will not cross the "Action Line" and the behavior will not occur.
Let's walk through an example Fogg uses to explain his model. Imagine a time when your mobile phone rang but you didn't answer it. Why not?
Perhaps the phone was buried in a bag, making it difficult to reach. In this case your inability to easily answer the call inhibited the action. Your ability was limited.
Maybe you thought the caller was a telemarketer, someone you did not want to speak to. So, your lack of motivation influenced you to ignore the call.
Or, maybe the call was important and within arm's reach, but the ringer on your phone was silenced. Despite having both a strong motivation and easy access to answer the call, it was completely missed because you never heard it ring -- in other words, no trigger was present.
In the previous chapter, we covered triggers, so now let's dive deeper into the other two components of the Fogg Behavior Model: motivation and ability.
Motivation While a trigger cues an action, motivation defines the level of desire to take that action. Dr. Edward Deci, Professor of Psychology at the University of Rochester and a leading researcher on SelfDetermination Theory, defines motivation as, "the energy for action."[lvi]
While the nature of motivation is a widely contested topic in psychology, Fogg argues that three Core Motivators drive our desire to act.
Fogg states that all humans are motivated to seek pleasure and avoid pain, to seek hope and avoid fear, and finally, to seek social acceptance and avoid rejection. The two sides of the three Core Motivators can be thought of as levers to increase or decrease the likelihood of a person taking a particular action by increasing or decreasing their motivation.

Motivation Examples in Advertising Perhaps no industry makes the elements of motivation more explicit than the advertising business. Advertisers regularly tap into people's motivations to influence their habits. By looking at ads with a critical eye, we can identify how they attempt to influence our actions.
For example, Barack Obama's 2008 presidential campaign leveraged a deeply inspiring message and image during a time of economic and political upheaval. An iconic poster designed by artist Shepard Fairey conveyed the idea of "hope," not only with the word printed in bold letters along the bottom of the image, but also through Obama's steadfast gaze as he looked confidently toward the future. (Unfortunately, the image was at the center of a copyright battle between Fairey and the Associated Press, which claimed ownership of the original photograph used in the artwork, so I've chosen to not to include it here. If you can't recall the image, there is a link in the endnotes).[lvii]
Another example of motivation in advertising relates to the old saying, "sex sells." Long an advertising standard, images of buff, scantily clad (and usually female) bodies are used to hawk everything from the latest Victoria's Secret lingerie to domain names through GoDaddy.com and fast food chains such as Carl's Jr. and Burger King (figure 4). These and countless others use the voyeuristic promise of pleasure to capture attention and motivate action.
Figure 4
Of course, this strategy only appeals to a particular demographic's association with sex as a salient motivator. While teenage boys -- the common target for these ads -- may find them inspiring, others may find them distasteful. What motivates some people will not motivate others, a fact that provides all the more reason to understand the needs of your particular target audience.
Sometimes the psychological motivator is not as obvious as those used by Obama supporters or fast food chains. The Budweiser ad in figure 5 illustrates how the beer company uses the motivator of social cohesion by displaying three "buds," cheering for their national team. Although beer is not directly related to social acceptance, the ad reinforces the association that the brand goes together with good friends and good times.

Figure 5 On the flip-side, negative emotions such as fear can also be powerful motivators. The ad in figure 6 shows a disabled man with a shocking head scar. The ad is impactful, communicating the risks of not wearing a motorcycle helmet. The words, "I won't wear a helmet it makes me look stupid," along with the patient's mental age (post-motorcycle accident) of two-years old, send a chilling message.
Figure 6 As described in the previous chapter on triggers, understanding why the user needs your product or service is critical. While internal triggers are the frequent itch experienced by users throughout their days, the right motivators create action by offering the promise of desirable outcomes (i.e., a satisfying scratch). However, even with the right trigger enabled and motivation running high, product designers often find users still don't behave the way they want them to. What's missing in this equation? Usability, or rather, the ability of the user to take action easily. Ability In his book, Something Really New: Three Simple Steps to Creating Truly Innovative Products , [lviii] author Denis J. Hauptly deconstructs the process of innovation into its most fundamental steps. First,

Hauptly says, understand the reason people use a product or service. Next, lay out the steps the customer must take to get the job done. Finally, once the series of tasks from intention to outcome is understood, simply start removing steps until you reach the simplest possible process.
Consequently, any technology or product that significantly reduces the steps to complete a task will enjoy high adoption rates by the people it assists. For Hauptly, easier equals better.
But can the nature of innovation be explained so succinctly? Perhaps a brief detour into the technology of the recent past will illustrate the point.
A few decades ago, a dial-up Internet connection seemed magical. All users had to do was boot-up their computers, hit a few keys on their desktop keyboards, wait for their modems to screech and scream as they established connections, and then, perhaps 30 seconds to a minute later, they were online. Checking email or browsing the nascent World Wide Web was terribly slow (by today's standards), but offered unprecedented convenience compared to finding information any other way. The technology was remarkable and soon became a ritual for millions of people accessing this new marvel known as the Internet.
Of course, today few of us could stand the torture of using a 2400 baud modem after we've become accustomed to our always-on, high-speed Internet connections. Emails are now instantaneously pushed to the devices in our pockets. Our photos, music, videos, and files -- not to mention the vastness of the open web -- are accessible almost anywhere, anytime, on any connected device.
In line with Hauptly's assertion, as the steps required to get something done (in this case, to get online and use the Internet) were removed or improved upon, adoption increased.
For example, consider the trend-line of the relationship between the percentage of people creating content online and the increasing ease of doing so, as shown in figure 7.
Figure 7
Web 1.0 was categorized by a few content providers like C|net (now called CNET) or the New York Times publishing to the masses, with only a tiny number of people creating what others read.
But in the late 1990s, blogging changed the web. Before blogging, amateur writers had to purchase

their own domain, fiddle with DNS settings, find a web host, and set up a content-management system to present their writing. Suddenly, new companies like Blogger eliminated most of these steps by allowing users to simply register an account and start posting.
Evan Williams, who co-founded Blogger and later Twitter, echoes Hauptly's formula for innovation when he describes his own approach to building two massively successful companies.[lix] "Take a human desire, preferably one that has been around for a really long time... Identify that desire and use modern technology to take out steps." Blogger made posting content online dramatically easier. The result? The percentage of users creating content online, as opposed to simply consuming it, increased.
Along came Facebook and other social media tools, refining earlier innovations such as Bulletin Board Systems (BBS) and Really Simple Syndication (RSS) feeds into tools for status update-hungry users.
Then, seven years after Blogger's birth, a new company described at first as a "micro-blogging" service sought to bring sharing to the masses -- Twitter. For many, blogging was still too difficult and time-consuming. But anyone could type short, casual messages. "Tweeting" began to enter the national lexicon as Twitter gained wider adoption, climbing to 500 million registered users by 2012.[lx] Critics first discounted Twitter's 140-character message limitation as gimmicky and restrictive. But little did they realize the constraint actually increased users' ability to create. A few keyboard taps and users were sharing. As of late 2013, 340 million tweets were sent every day.
More recently, companies such as Pinterest, Instagram and Vine have elevated online content creation to a new level of simplicity. Now, just a quick snap of a photo or re-pin of an interesting image shares information across multiple social networks. The pattern of innovation shows that making a given action easier to accomplish spurs each successive phase of the web, helping to turn the once-niche behavior of content publishing into a mainstream habit.
As recent history of the web demonstrates, the ease or difficulty of doing a particular action impacts the likelihood that a behavior will occur. To successfully simplify a product, we must remove obstacles that stand in the user's way. According to the Fogg Behavior Model, ability is the capacity to do a particular behavior.
*** Fogg describes six "elements of simplicity" -- the factors that influence a task's difficulty. [lxi] These are:
- Time - How long it takes to complete an action. - Money - The fiscal cost of taking an action. - Physical Effort - The amount of labor involved in taking the action. - Brain Cycles - The level of mental effort and focus required to take an action. - Social Deviance - How accepted the behavior is by others. - Non-Routine - According to Fogg, "How much the action matches or disrupts existing routines."
To increase the likelihood of a behavior occurring, Fogg instructs designers to focus on simplicity as a function of the user's scarcest resource at that moment. In other words, identify what the user is missing. What is making it difficult for the user to accomplish the desired action?
Is the user short on time? Is the behavior too expensive? Is the user exhausted after a long day of work? Is the product too difficult to understand? Is the user in a social context where the behavior

could be perceived as inappropriate? Is the behavior simply so far outside of the user's normal routine that its strangeness is off-putting?
These factors will differ by person and context, so designers should ask, "What is the thing that is missing that would allow my users to proceed to the next step?" Designing with an eye toward simplifying the overall user experience reduces friction, removes obstacles, and helps push the user across Fogg's action line.
The action phase of the Hook Model incorporates Fogg's six elements of simplicity by asking designers to consider how their technology can facilitate the simplest actions in anticipation of reward. The easier an action, the more likely the user is to do it and to continue the cycle through the next phase of the Hook Model.
Below are examples of simple online interfaces used by a number of successful companies to prompt users to move quickly into the Hook's next phase.
Logging In with Facebook Traditionally, registering for a new account with an app or website requires several steps. The user is prompted to enter an email address, create a password, and submit other information such as a name or phone number. This burden introduces significant friction, detracting users from signing-up. Mobile devices present the special challenge of smaller screens and slower typing speeds.
However, today it is nearly impossible to browse the web or use a mobile app without encountering a Facebook Login prompt (figure 8). Many companies have eliminated several steps in the registration process by enabling users to register with their sites by using their existing Facebook credentials.
Figure 8
While the Facebook login function is useful for time-starved people, it should be noted that for others, the tool doesn't necessarily ease registration. For example, users who are wary of how Facebook might share their personal information may not find the login button helpful because it may trigger new anxieties (and thus, brain cycles) about the social networking giant's trustworthiness. Again, the roadblocks confronting users vary by person and context. There is no one-size-fits-all solution, so designers should seek to understand an array of possible user challenges.
Sharing with the Twitter Button Twitter helps people share articles, videos, photos or any other content they find on the web. The

company noticed that 25 percent of tweets contained a link and therefore sought to make the action of tweeting a website link as easy as possible.[lxii]
To ease the way for link-sharers, Twitter created an embeddable Tweet button for third-party sites, allowing them to offer visitors a one-click way to tweet directly from their pages (figure 9). The external trigger opens a preset message, reducing the cognitive effort of composing the tweet and saving several steps to sharing.
Figure 9
Searching with Google Google, the world's most popular search engine, was not the first to market. It competed against incumbents such as Yahoo!, Lycos, AltaVista, and Excite when it launched in the late 1990s. How did Google come to dominate the multi-billion dollar industry?
For one, Google's PageRank algorithm proved to be a much more effective way to index the web. By ranking pages based on how frequently other sites linked to them, Google improved search relevancy. Compared with directory-based search tools such as Yahoo!, Google was a massive timesaver. But Google also beat out other search engines that had become polluted with irrelevant content and cluttered with advertising (figure 10). From its inception, Google's clean and simple homepage and search results pages were solely focused on streamlining the act of searching and getting relevant results (figure 11).

Figure 10 - The Yahoo homepage circa 1998
Figure 11 - The Google homepage circa 1998
Simply put, Google reduced the amount of time and the cognitive effort required to find what the user was looking for. The company continues to relentlessly improve its search engine by finding new ways to remove whatever might be in the user's way -- no matter how seemingly trivial. While its homepage remains remarkably pristine, Google now offers myriad tools to make searching easier and faster -- including automatic spelling correction, predictive results based on partial queries, and search results that load even as the user is typing. Google's efforts are intended to make searching easier to keep users coming back.
Taking Photos with the Apple iPhone Many of life's most treasured moments come and go in an instant. We try and capture these memories in photos, but if our camera is out of reach or too cumbersome to catch the shot, we lose those moments forever. Apple recognized it could help iPhone owners take more photos by making picturetaking easier. The company made the camera app directly launchable from the locked screen, without requiring a password. Compared to the number of steps needed to access photo apps on other smartphones, the simple flick gesture of the native iPhone camera gives it a virtual monopoly as users' go-to solution whenever they need to snap a quick pic (figure 12).

Figure 12 Scrolling with Pinterest How can a website make browsing easier? One solution popularized by digital pinboard site, Pinterest, is the infinite scroll. In the past, getting from one web page to the next required clicking and waiting. However on sites such as Pinterest, whenever the user nears the bottom of a page, more results automatically load. Users never have to pause as they continue scrolling through pins or posts without end (figure 13).
Figure 13 ***
The examples above show how simplicity increases the intended user behaviors. Motivation or Ability -- Which Should You Increase First? After uncovering the triggers that prompt user actions and deciding which actions you want to turn into habits, you can increase motivation and ability to spark the likelihood of your users taking a

desired behavior. But which should you invest in first, motivation or ability? Where is your time and money better spent?
The answer is always to start with ability. Of course, all three parts of B=MAT must be present for a singular user action to occur; without a clear trigger and sufficient motivation, there will be no behavior. But for companies building technology solutions, the greatest return on investment will generally come from increasing a product's ease-of-use. The fact is, increasing motivation is expensive and time-consuming. Website visitors tend to ignore instructional text. Their attention is split on several tasks at once and they have little patience for explanations about why or how they should do something. Instead, influencing behavior by reducing the effort required to perform an action is more effective than increasing someone's desire to do it. Make your product so simple that users already know how to use it, and you've got a winner.
The Evolution of Twitter's Homepage In 2009, the Twitter homepage was cluttered with text and dozens of links (figure 14). The page was confusing, especially for new users unfamiliar with the product. Twitter's value proposition of sharing what you were doing with friends and family failed to resonate with most users, who wondered, "why would I want to broadcast my activities?" The page design demanded a high level of attention and comprehension.
Figure 14 - The Twitter homepage in 2009
A year later, Twitter redesigned its homepage, touting itself as a service to "share and discover what's happening" (figure 15). Although the page became more focused on action, it was still visually onerous. Even more unfortunate, the task users were most likely to do -- search -- was not what Twitter really wanted them to do. Twitter management knew from early users that those who followed other people on the service were more likely to stay engaged and form a habit. But searching on Twitter was not helping that goal, so the company decided to make another switch.

Figure 15 - The Twitter homepage in 2010
During the company's period of hypergrowth, the Twitter homepage became radically more simple (figure 16). The product description is itself only 140 characters long and has evolved from the cognitively difficult request that users broadcast their information (as seen in 2009), to the less taxing "Find out what's happening, right now, with the people and organizations you care about."
Figure 16 - The Twitter homepage in 2012
The big bold image of people looking into some kind of light-emanating event, like a concert or a soccer match, metaphorically communicates the value of the service while piquing curiosity. Most strikingly, the page has two very clear calls-to-action: sign in or sign up. The company made the desired action as simple as possible, knowing that getting users to experience the service would yield better results than trying to convince them to use it while still on the homepage.
Of course, it is worth noting that Twitter was in a different place in 2012 than in 2009. People came to the site having heard more about the service as its popularity grew. Twitter's homepage evolution reveals how the company discovered its users' scarcest resource. In 2009, the Twitter homepage attempted to boost motivation. But by 2012, Twitter had discovered that no matter how much users knew about the service, driving them to open an account and start following people resulted in much higher engagement.
Recently, Twitter's homepage has been modified slightly to encourage downloading of the company's mobile apps (figure 17). The simplicity of the large sign-in or sign-up triggers on the 2012 version remain, but Twitter now knows that driving users to install the app on their phones leads to the highest rates of repeat engagement.

Figure 17 - The Twitter homepage in 2013
On Heuristics and Perception So far, we have discussed Fogg's Core Motivators and the six elements of simplicity as levers for influencing the likelihood of a particular behavior occurring. These factors echo ideals of how people react when making rational decisions. For example, every Economics 101 student learns that as prices decrease, consumers purchase more -- in Fogg's terms, an example of increasing ability by decreasing price.
However, although the principle seems elementary, the law, like many other theories of human behavior, has exceptions. The field of behavioral economics, as studied by luminaries such as Nobel Prize winner Daniel Kahneman, exposed exceptions to the rational model of human behavior. Even the notion that people always consume more if something costs less, for example, is a tendency, not an absolute.
There are many counterintuitive and surprising ways companies can boost users' motivation or increase their ability by understanding heuristics -- the mental shortcuts we take to make decisions and form opinions. It is worth mentioning a few of these brain biases. Even though users are often unaware of these influences on their behavior, heuristics can predict their actions.
The Scarcity Effect In 1975, researchers Worchel, Lee, and Adewole wanted to know how people would value cookies in two identical glass jars.[lxiii] One jar held ten cookies while the other contained just two stragglers. Which cookies would people value more?
While the cookies and jars were identical, participants valued the ones in the near-empty jar more highly. The appearance of scarcity affected their perception of value.
There are many theories as to why this is the case. For one, scarcity may signal something about the product. If there are fewer of an item, the thinking goes, it might be because other people know something you don't. Namely, that the cookies in the almost-empty jar are the better choice. The jar with just two cookies left in it conveys valuable, albeit irrelevant, information since the cookies are

identical. Yet, the perception of scarcity changed their perceived value. In the second part of their experiment, the researchers wanted to know what would happen to the
perception of the value of the cookies if they suddenly became scarce or abundant. Groups of study participants were given jars with either two cookies or ten. Then, the people in the group with ten cookies suddenly had eight taken away. Conversely, those with only two cookies had eight new cookies added to their jars. How would these changes affect the way participants valued the cookies?
Results remained consistent with the scarcity heuristic. The group left with only two cookies rated them to be more valuable, while those experiencing sudden abundance by going from two to ten, actually valued the cookies less. In fact, they valued the cookies even lower than people who had started with ten cookies to begin with. The study showed that a product can decrease in perceived value if it starts off as scarce and becomes abundant.
For an example of how perception of a limited supply can increase sales, look no further than Amazon.com. My recent search for a DVD revealed there were "only 14 left in stock" (figure 18), while a search for a book I've had my eye on says only three copies remain. Is the world's largest online retailer almost sold out of nearly everything I want to buy or are they using the scarcity heuristic to influence my buying behavior?
Figure 18 - "Only 14 left in stock"?
The Framing Effect Context also shapes perception. In a social experiment, world-class violinist Joshua Bell decided to play a free impromptu concert in a Washington, DC subway station. [lxiv] Bell regularly sells out venues such as the Kennedy Center and Carnegie Hall for hundreds of dollars per ticket, but when placed in the context of the DC subway, his music fell upon deaf ears. Almost nobody knew they were walking past one of the most talented musicians in the world.
The mind takes shortcuts informed by our surroundings to make quick and sometimes erroneous judgments. When Bell performed his concert in the subway station, few stopped to listen. But when framed in the context of a concert hall, he can charge beaucoup bucks.
But the framing heuristic not only influences our behaviors -- it literally changes how our brain perceives pleasure. For example, a 2007 study attempted to measure if price had any influence on the taste of wine.[lxv] The researchers had study participants sample wine while in an fMRI machine.
As the machine scanned the blood flow in the various regions of their brains, the tasters were informed of the cost of each wine sampled. The sample started with a $5 wine and progressed to a $90 bottle. Interestingly, as the price of the wine increased, so did the participant's enjoyment of the wine. Not only did they say they enjoyed the wine more but their brain corroborated their feelings, showing higher spikes in the regions associated with pleasure. Little did the study participants realize, they were tasting the same wine each time. This study demonstrates how perception can form a personal reality based on how a product is framed, even when there is little relationship with objective quality.

The Anchoring Effect Rarely can you walk into a clothing store without seeing signage for "30% off," "buy-one-get-one free," and other sales and deals. In reality, these items are often marketed to maximize profits for the business. Often, the same store will have similar but less expensive (yet non-discounted) products. I recently visited a store that offered a package of three Jockey brand undershirts at a buy-one-get-onehalf-off discount for $29.50. After surveying other options, I noticed a package of five Fruit of the Loom brand undershirts selling for $34. After some quick math, I discovered that the shirts not on sale were actually cheaper per-shirt than the "discounted" brand's package.
People often anchor to one piece of information when making a decision. I almost bought the shirts on sale assuming that the one feature differentiating the two brands -- the fact that one was on sale and the other was not -- was all I needed to consider.
The Endowed Progress Effect Punch cards are often used by retailers to encourage repeat business. With each purchase, customers get closer to receiving a free product or service. These cards are typically awarded empty and in effect, customers start at zero percent complete. What would happen if retailers handed customers punch cards with punches already given? Would people be more likely to take action if they had already made some progress? An experiment sought to answer this very question.[lxvi]
Two groups of customers were given punch cards awarding a free car wash once the cards were fully punched. One group was given a blank punch card with 8 squares and the other given a punch card with 10 squares but with two free punches. Both groups still had to purchase 8 car washes to receive a free wash; however, the second group of customers -- those that were given two free punches -- had a staggering 82 percent higher completion rate. The study demonstrates the endowed progress effect, a phenomenon that increases motivation as people believe they are nearing a goal.
Sites such as LinkedIn and Facebook utilize this heuristic to encourage people to divulge more information about themselves when completing their online profiles. On LinkedIn, every user starts with some semblance of progress (figure 19). The next step is to "Improve Your Profile Strength" by supplying additional information. As users complete each step, the meter incrementally shows the user is advancing. Cleverly, LinkedIn's completion bar jumpstarts the perception of progress and does not include a numeric scale. For the new user, a proper LinkedIn profile does not seem so far away. But even the "advanced" user still has additional steps she can take to inch toward the final goal.
Figure 19
*** Most people remain unaware of how heuristics help us make split-second decisions multiple times per day. Psychologists believe there are hundreds of cognitive biases that influence our behaviors and the four discussed here are just a few examples.[lxvii] For product designers building habit-forming technology, understanding and leveraging these methods for boosting motivation and ability can prove highly impactful.

Stephen Anderson, author of Seductive Interaction Design, created a tool called Mental Notes to help designers build better products through heuristics.[lxviii] Each of the cards in his deck of 50 contains a brief description of a cognitive bias and is intended to spark product team conversations around how they might utilize the principle. For example, team members might ask themselves how they could utilize the endowed progress effect or the scarcity effect to increase the likelihood of a desired user behavior.
In this chapter, we discovered how to take users from trigger to action. We discussed how cognitive biases influence behavior and how by designing the simplest action in anticipation of a reward, product makers can advance users to the next phase of the Hook Model.
Now that users have passed through the first two phases, it is time to give them what they came for -- the reward that scratches their itch. But what is it exactly that users want? What keeps us coming back time and again to habit-forming experiences and technologies? The answer to what we're all searching for is the topic of the next chapter.
*** Remember and Share
- Action is the second step in The Hook. - The action is the simplest behavior in anticipation of reward. - As described by the Dr. BJ Fogg's Behavior Model: - For any behavior to occur, a trigger must be present at the same time as the user has sufficient ability and motivation to take action. - To increase the desired behavior, ensure a clear trigger is present, then increase ability by making the action easier to do, and finally align with the right motivator. - Every behavior is driven by one of three Core Motivators: seeking pleasure or avoiding pain, seeking hope and avoiding fear, seeking social acceptance while avoiding social rejection. - Ability is influenced by the six factors of time, money, physical effort, brain cycles, social deviance, and non-routineness. Ability is dependent on users and their context at that moment. - Heuristics are cognitive shortcuts we take to make quick decisions. Product designers can utilize many of the hundreds of heuristics to increase the likelihood of their desired action.
*** Do This Now Refer to the answers you came up with in the last "Do This Now" section to complete the following exercises:
- Walk through the path your users would take to use your product or service, beginning from the time they feel their internal trigger to the point where they receive their expected outcome. How many steps does it take before users obtain the reward they came for? How does this process compare with the simplicity of some of the examples described in this chapter? How does it compare with competing products and services?
- Which resources are limiting your users' ability to accomplish the tasks that will become habits?
- Time - Money - Physical effort - Brain cycles (too confusing)

- Social deviance (outside the norm) - Non-routine (too new) - Brainstorm three testable ways to make the intended tasks easier to complete. - Consider how you might apply heuristics to make habit-forming actions more likely.

4. VARIABLE REWARD
Ultimately, all businesses help users achieve an objective. As we learned in the previous chapter, reducing the steps needed to complete the intended outcome increases the likelihood of that outcome. But to keep users engaged, products need to deliver on their promises. To form the learned associations we discussed in the chapter on triggers, users must come to depend on the product as a reliable solution to their problem -- the salve for the itch they came to scratch.
The third step in the Hook Model is the Variable Reward phase. In this phase, you reward your users by solving a problem, reinforcing their motivation for the action taken in the previous phase. But to understand why rewards -- and variable rewards in particular -- are so powerful, we must first take a trip deep inside the brain.
Understanding Rewards In the 1940s, two researchers named James Olds and Peter Milner accidentally discovered how a special area of the brain is the source of our cravings. The researchers implanted electrodes in the brains of lab mice that enabled the mice to give themselves tiny electric shocks to a small area of the brain called the nucleus accumbens.[lxix] The mice quickly became hooked on the sensation.
Olds and Milner demonstrated that the lab mice would forgo food, water, and even run across a painful electrified grid for the opportunity to continue pressing the lever that administered the shocks. A few years later, other researchers tested the human response to self-administered stimulus in the same area of the brain. The results were just as dramatic as in the mouse trial -- subjects wanted to do nothing but press the brain-stimulating button. Even when the machine was turned off, people continued pressing the button. Researchers even had to forcibly take the devices from subjects who refused to relinquish them.
Given the responses they had earlier demonstrated from lab animals, Olds and Milner concluded that they had discovered the brain's pleasure center. In fact, we now know other things that feel good also activate the same neural region. Sex, delicious food, a bargain, and even our digital devices all tap into this deep recess of the brain, providing the impetus for many of our behaviors.
However, more recent research has shown that Olds and Milner's experiments were not stimulating pleasure per se. Stanford Professor Brian Knutson, conducted a study exploring blood flow in the brains of people wagering while inside of an fMRI machine.[lxx] The test subjects played a gambling game while Knutson and his team looked at which areas of their brains became more active. The startling results showed that the nucleus accumbens was not activating when the reward (in this case a monetary payout) was received, but rather, in anticipation of it.
The study revealed that what draws us to act is not the sensation we receive from the reward itself, but the need to alleviate the craving for that reward. The stress of desire in the brain appears to compel us, just as it did in Olds' and Milner's lab mouse experiments.
Understanding Variability If you've never watched a YouTube video of a baby's first encounter with a dog, it's worth doing. Not only are these videos incredibly cute, but they help demonstrate something important about our mental wiring.
At first, the expression on the baby's face seems to ask, "What is this hairy monster doing in my house? Will it hurt me? What will it do next?" The child is filled with curiosity, uncertain if this

