Dedication
AL:
To my mother, Lilian. A constant source of inspiration, love, and life. See you soaring in the Sierras.
DAVE:
To my daughter, Eleanor. I hope that one day she thinks her "papa" had a few good ideas and was a cool guy for writing
a freaking book.
CHRISTOPHER:
To my grandfather John (Jack) Leeke.
KEVIN:
To Dave and Scott.

Contents
Dedication
Introduction: From Bad Tuna to Play Bigger
PART I: The Category King Economy 1. Creation Wins 2. Category Is the New Strategy 3. The Discipline of Category Design
PART II: The Category King Playbook 4. Start: How to Discover a Category 5. Strategy: The Power of a Point of View 6. Mobilization: The Shit Gets Real Chapter 7. Marketing: Conditioning the Market to Welcome Your Pirate
Invasion
PART III: The Enduring Category King 8. The Flywheel: From Category King to Legendary King 9. The Corporate Chapter: The Rare Art of Continuous Category
Creation 10. How You Can Play Bigger
Acknowledgments Notes

Index
About the Authors Credits Copyright About the Publisher

Introduction: From Bad Tuna to Play Bigger
Most books are by a soloist. The one you're holding is by a band. Let me tell you our story. First of all, Al Ramadan, Christopher Lochhead, and Dave
Peterson are kind of nuts. I mean that in a sincerely affectionate way. Over the past dozen years, they've forged a relationship with each other unlike any I've seen between three men. Their business, Play Bigger,1 gets paid large sums of money to help companies do exactly what's in this book. (So you're getting it cheap!) The whole company consists of just the three of them and their legendary ringleader Mary Forman ("admin" wouldn't do her justice), and they have no intention of hiring more employees, expanding globally, taking VC money, or trying to "disrupt" McKinsey. They don't have an office, preferring to work in bare feet and board shorts at Christopher's Santa Cruz, California, house with the hens out back, taking surfing breaks when the good waves roll in. They are refreshingly enthusiastic about everything and believe that there isn't a sentence that can't be made better by adding some version of "fuck" to it. When giving a presentation to, say, a board of directors, they can come across as an odd hybrid of business strategists, motivational speakers, and a family of pirates.
Most important, these guys are utterly bonded and connected to each other in life as well as in business, more like brothers than partners. On occasion, I have heard them half-jokingly call each other "honey."
All three grew up as outsiders--kids with rough edges who shouldn't have ever become so prosperous. Al was born in Australia, but his father was a blue-collar immigrant to that country from Cyprus. Christopher grew up in an English-speaking family originally

from Scotland in French-speaking Montreal and thought he was stupid until he understood, in his twenties, that he was dyslexic. Dave was born in rural Iowa--a farm boy who stood out because he looked Asian. His Japanese mother had survived World War II firebombings and later married an American military man and cropduster who brought her back home to that Iowa countryside. In the 1990s, Al, Christopher, and Dave wound up in Silicon Valley via separate, twisty routes. Before they succeeded, each of them at some point failed spectacularly--and their failures, to my mind, are a big reason why they know so much now. Or, as tech people might put it, the failures are a feature, not a bug.
I've known Al the longest. In the late 1990s, while I was writing for USA Today and covering the dot-com boom, I visited the company Al founded, Quokka Sports. It's still one of my favorite companies from that era. Al had previously been the chief technology officer for Australia's America's Cup racing team. From that experience, he realized that 1) emerging networked devices could capture all sorts of data about boats in a race and 2) yachting played terribly on television. Quokka was founded to take sports data and creatively display it on a website so fans of sailing or car racing or Olympic events could experience the sport in a whole new, immersive way. Quokka got everything right about how data was going to change the way fans consume sports--but it did so ten to twenty years too early. The data age of sports finally is taking hold in the mid-2010s. Quokka thrived in the dot-com era but wasn't strong enough to get through the dot-com crash of 2000, and in 2001 the company closed. By then Al had become a friend, and I continued to talk to him anytime I wrote about data and sports.
Al moved on to top positions at Macromedia, and then Adobe after Adobe bought Macromedia. While at Macromedia in 2001, Al first met Christopher and Dave.
In Silicon Valley circles, Christopher is a marketing legend. If Bruce Willis had been a chief marketing officer in the Die Hard movies--that would've been Christopher. He is brash, cocky, creative, and speaks so cleverly you'd think he was scripted by former West Wing writers. Since, as a teenager, he kept flunking out of school,

Christopher never went to college and taught himself business by reading books like Ogilvy on Advertising and Geoffrey Moore's Crossing the Chasm. In the mid-1990s, he was an executive at a software company called Vantive, where Dave came to work with Christopher. Then, in the late 1990s, Christopher and I tangentially crossed paths when I wrote about Scient. That company was a rocket of the dot-com era, at one point hiring two thousand people within thirty-six months. It made its money consulting to companies about how to do business on the nascent Internet. Christopher was the company's chief marketing officer. Scient made the cover of Forbes magazine in 2000. Before the end of 2001, it was dead--a direct victim of the dot-com collapse. If you're a consulting company and your customers get nuked . . . you don't have anybody to consult to.
After Scient's demise, Christopher worked as a positioning consultant for a while, and partnered with Dave. One of their gigs in 2001 was to help Al figure out how to reposition Macromedia products--which, again, was when all three came together. Christopher had another significant run as a CMO, at Mercury Interactive. He and Dave repositioned the company and helped steer it to a 2006 acquisition by Hewlett-Packard for 4.5 billion. When Christopher joined Mercury, it was worth about 1 billion. As Mercury's chief marketer, Christopher wanted the most talented person he knew by his side to run Mercury's communications. That was Dave.
I'd never had any connection to Dave. But now I would say that I think he can read people as well as anyone I've ever met. He would say he developed that capability as a defensive strategy when he was an Iowa kid who got picked on for his ethnicity. Instead of fighting back with fists or folding inward, Dave outsmarted his tormentors and took them down with words. He started out as a psychology major in college but switched to public relations because that's where all the girls were. At twenty-five, Dave moved to Silicon Valley to work for an ad agency, which had as one of its clients Vantive, where Christopher ran marketing. Before long, Christopher fired the agency and hired Dave to come to Vantive, and from that

point on the two were pretty much glued together. Dave took a detour when he cofounded a company called GiveMeTalk!, thinking he'd make a fortune by creating a new market category he called "Internet talk radio." That turned out to be Dave's lesson in failure. To this day, almost no one has heard of GiveMeTalk! Dave and his cofounders were too early and later the space became this thing called podcasting. Dave then joined Christopher at Mercury, and that experience helped make Dave into a valuable entity in Silicon Valley. He had absorbed Christopher's marketing mojo and mixed it with his brand of people reading and aggressive execution (or, to use our technical term, Dave "gets shit done"), and companies wanted him. He ended up, for a while, running marketing for another software company, Coverity.
By 2006, both Al and Christopher had essentially retired. Dave was still at Coverity. Al and Christopher had second homes in Lake Tahoe, where they would get together on the ski slopes. Each did a little consulting and sat on a couple of boards, and were trying to figure out what to do next. Here's what Al told me: "One day Christopher and I were just riding the ski lift, and I said, `Why the fuck are we doing this apart? This is nuts! You've got this skill, and I've got that skill. We really should think about doing this together.'" Al and Christopher combined forces, and not long after, Dave parted from Coverity and came aboard. The three quickly found that what they could do together was ten times better than what they might do individually. They're kind of like the Avengers, with different complementary superpowers: Christopher is the creative frontman; Al is the analytical business mind; Dave, as noted earlier, "gets shit done."
They needed a name for their advisory firm. Now, I wasn't around for this part, but knowing what I know now, I can imagine how the process went. It undoubtedly involved bourbon, IPAs, and a great deal of uncontrollable laughter. Somewhere along the line, the name Bad Tuna surfaced as a favorite. Eventually a more sober sensibility took over and they settled on Play Bigger, which captures the firm's ethos perfectly. However, Bad Tuna survives as their devilish alter ego. If you're ever working with these guys late at

night, and a completely inappropriate idea surfaces, that's Bad Tuna talking.
One evening in 2013, I met Al and Dave for dinner at a San Francisco restaurant. That's where we first talked about a book, and before long I met with them again, this time including Christopher, to discuss the idea in more detail. I'd been writing about the technology industry since the mid-1980s, and their beliefs and philosophy about why certain start-ups wildly succeed struck me as fresh and interesting. From all their years at the top of companies, they had put together the concepts behind what we call category kings and category design, as well as tactics such as the POV and lightning strike. This was the Play Bigger intellectual property that they took to their clients. They wanted me to not just document what they already knew, but help shape the ideas further and deepen their understanding through journalistic and data research.
By that point, Play Bigger was gaining a reputation as advisors and coaches who could really make a difference in a company's fortunes. I was talking with Peggy Burke, a legendary brand designer for Silicon Valley companies (her firm designed Cisco's iconic bridge logo--and our book cover!), and she told me: "I can't overstate how much these guys are the heaviest lead foot on any gas pedal. They are the Mario Andrettis of marketing; of getting companies from zero to one hundred; of accelerating everything with their approach."
The clincher for me was why they wanted to do this work and produce this book. As I said earlier, they aren't looking to build a bigger business, so this book isn't a marketing tool. They believe they have something to contribute that can help entrepreneurs, investors, and executives, and even just regular people who are trying to build a great career. More times than I can count, Christopher pointed to Ogilvy on Advertising and Crossing the Chasm, and said that if David Ogilvy and Geoff Moore had not written those books, he wouldn't be where he is today. He and the other guys truly hope this will be such a book for the next generation.

So I bought in, and we all spent hundreds of hours debating these ideas, mostly in Santa Cruz with the hens out back. (Unfortunately, I'm not really a surfer. Yet.) We gathered and crunched data to find characteristics of category kings, and then researched dozens of case studies and interviewed founders, CEOs, and venture capitalists to find out how category kings and category design really work.
From all indications, I easily plugged into the Play Bigger milieu. I grew up in Binghamton, New York, in circumstances the guys could relate to, shaped by difficult years after my father died when I was nine. I've spent my adult life telling stories about the technology industry in books, for newspapers and magazines, and on television --all from either Washington, D.C., or New York City, preferring to observe Silicon Valley without being of Silicon Valley. And as a child of upstate New York, I have never stopped playing hockey. Al, Christopher, and Dave can kick my ass on the waves, but put us on some frozen water and they will be begging for mercy.
All in all, that's why this book is by a band. Play Bigger already had a metaphorical lead singer (Christopher), bass player (Al), and drummer (Dave). I brought along my guitar, and it all clicked. The songs on this album wouldn't exist without all of us. The book is a true collaboration.
Now I am going to shut up. The voice you hear through the rest of the book will be our collective harmony. At times in the book, we will turn to a specific experience from Al, Christopher, or Dave, and we'll talk about it in the third person: Al did this at Macromedia or Christopher and Dave have a story from Mercury . . . and so on. All in all, consider everything to be coming from all of us.
Kevin Maney New York, NY 2015

Part I
The Category King Economy

1
Creation Wins
Legendary Questions
What do Facebook, Google, Salesforce.com, Uber, VMware, Netflix, IKEA, Birds Eye, 5-hour Energy, and Pixar have in common?
In what way does Apple work like 165-year-old glass company Corning?
What all-too-common mistake did Microsoft make--and repeat over and over--when it wasted billions of dollars on Zune, Windows Mobile, Bing, and Microsoft Stores?
How do you explain why some start-ups last and build value while others shoot up and then flame out?
Why was Elvis not just the King, but a category king? And what can all of this teach us about enduring success in the twenty-first-century economy--in both good times and downturns? The key to each has to do with creating, developing, and dominating new categories of products and services. Stick around and we'll tell you how that's done.
True Stories of Kings and Kingdoms
Category kings are all around us. They create entirely new categories of business, or entirely new ways of doing things. For this book, we studied category kings, analyzed data about them, and interviewed founders of many. These are the companies that shape our lives and alter the future. As we like to say, they play bigger than other companies.

Category kings are not a recent phenomenon. Before the 1920s, there existed no such category as "frozen foods." Clarence Birdseye --yep, that was actually his name--created it. Like many category creators through the ages, Birdseye was an outsider. Born in Brooklyn, New York, in 1886, he spent a lot of time on his family's farm on Long Island and developed a passion for taxidermy (not a hobby many kids have these days). That led him to a job as a naturalist for the U.S. government, which eventually took him to Labrador, in Canada's northeastern corner. Birdseye watched the Inuit people catch fish and toss them on the ice, where the fish flash-froze, retaining their flavor and texture. When Birdseye returned to the United States, he experimented by flash-freezing fish between cakes of dry ice, and then realized the process also worked for vegetables. He started a company--at first called General Seafoods--to make and sell this new category of product.
As he built his company, Birdseye realized he had to design and build the category itself, because before Birdseye, there was no ecosystem that would get frozen food from a factory to consumers, and no demand for frozen food because consumers didn't even know they might want it. He developed freezer cars for railroads and sold rail operators on the idea. He developed freezer cases for grocers and convinced them that frozen food would increase sales. He even convinced DuPont to invent cellophane. And he ran ads that positioned frozen vegetables as something different from canned vegetables. One early Life magazine ad--by then under the Birds Eye brand--showed a woman in pearls lounging on a pillow eating Birds Eye spinach, implying that only commoners put up with canned spinach. Frozen food was not just better than canned food--it was different from canned food. Birdseye's work took a couple of decades to pay off, but it takes time to build and dominate categories--and it took a lot more time then than it does now. Of course, almost a century later, Birds Eye is still a huge brand in frozen foods.1
Clarence Birdseye has more in common than you might think with the founders of Uber.

Uber is a category king of recent vintage. Not very long ago, we all lived with an age-old problem: in most cities, taxi service sucked. If you walked out to a given street corner, you had no idea if a taxi might happen by in a few minutes or, well, never. Yet there didn't seem to be an alternative way to get an instant car ride, so people didn't seek one out. We had an old, ongoing problem, but we didn't really know it was a problem that could be solved in a new way.
On a snowy night in Paris in 2008, Travis Kalanick and Garrett Camp, in the city for a European tech conference, stood roadside getting wetter and colder as they tried in vain to hail a cab. Kalanick and Camp were, separately, already reasonably successful tech entrepreneurs. Kalanick had started an online content-delivery company, Red Swoosh, which got bought by Akamai Technologies for 20 million. Camp had done better, founding StumbleUpon--a content discovery site--and selling it to eBay for 75 million.2 They were looking for a next idea for a company--perhaps something they'd do together--and while freezing and frustrated in Paris, they talked of solving this taxi problem. Apple's iPhone had been introduced less than a year earlier, changing the way we think about mobile technology and services. Why, Kalanick and Camp wondered, couldn't you pull out your smartphone, push a button, and get picked up by a car?
Back home in San Francisco, the pair experienced the problem anew. Hailing a cab in that town was like trying to get a bartender's attention in a jam-packed nightclub. So Kalanick and Camp went to work on their idea, and launched their service in the summer of 2010 in San Francisco. As millions of users now know, a customer's iPhone app would, at the push of a button, send a dispatch to drivers, showing the customer's location. Drivers--not taxis, but moonlighters driving their own cars--would have their own version of the app on a phone, allowing them to see dispatches and respond. The system would store customers' credit card information, so paying for the ride could be easy and safe for everyone involved. Kalanick and Camp originally called this service Uber-Cab, and later dropped the second part.

Half a year later, investors were lining up to give Uber money. Benchmark Capital put in 10 million. Some famous names such as Jay-Z and Jeff Bezos invested. Uber expanded to other cities. As it grew, Uber at the same time did something extremely important: Uber made all of us aware that we had a taxi problem--and that the problem had a new solution. Uber did this through the way it designed the company and its service. It did this through its messaging to the public. And it did this through confrontation. Every time the taxi industry tried to stop Uber, the scuffle made people more aware of Uber. In London, taxi drivers protested Uber by going on strike. When riders couldn't get cabs, they signed up for Uber at a rate eight times higher than before the strike. As Uber was developing its service and its company, it was defining this new category of problem and inserting it into our brains.
Within a couple of years, Kalanick, by then Uber's CEO and public face, understood that he could frame an even larger problem that Uber could solve. All of personal transportation was too expensive and too messy, particularly in cities. Plus, too many cars lead to traffic jams and pollution. Those were big problems that never had a good solution. But what if, Kalanick asked all of us, fewer cars could serve more people? What if his service could get so big, reliable, and cheap that in many places using Uber could become more desirable than owning a car? He wanted to make "transportation that's as reliable as running water," he told interviewers. And, by the way, that transportation wouldn't only move people around town--it could move anything. It could deliver stuff. Uber was designing its service and its company and, at the same time, a bigger category the company could define and ultimately dominate.3
By 2014, Uber was getting what seemed like preposterous valuations from investors. In June 2014 it was valued at 17 billion. By December the number hit 40 billion. Six months later it topped 50 billion. If you looked at Uber's business at the time, you would've concluded that its investors were out of their minds. But if you looked at the enormity of the problem Uber had teed itself up to solve, 40 billion or 50 billion seemed cheap in the long run. Uber

was creating a category of business that never before existed, and the company put it into our minds that it uniquely understood the problem and could craft a solution. Where a half-dozen years before there had been nothing, Uber was creating a whopper of a category, and making itself king. That's what investors were paying for: the potential of this new category and the belief that Uber would reign as its king for a long time. In 2015, Uber was still private--a sign that despite all its notoriety, Uber at five years old was still developing its category. Our data research shows that smart companies typically go public about the time their category takes wing--usually six to ten years after the company's founding.
In the twenty-first century, new category kings are being founded all the time, and at a faster rate than ever. A company called Sensity Systems is but one example. It started on a category creation path after serial entrepreneur Hugh Martin took over what was then a tiny company making LED lights. Martin was an outsider to the lighting industry. He'd previously run a biotech company, a telecommunications company, and a video game company--but never a lighting company. He saw an interesting opportunity in LED lights. LEDs run on the same voltage--five volts, DC--as computers, networking equipment, and digital sensors. That means that LEDs can essentially digitize light fixtures, changing the lighting industry just as much as music and photography were changed by becoming digital. In fact, lights can be embedded with sensors that pull in information about air quality, motion, sound, or weather. And since the lights can communicate over wireless networks, the LEDs can be networked together to share information or collect massive amounts of data. Lighting networks would then be able to track the number of cars in a mall parking lot, or, for police, light networks could detect gunshots with far better accuracy than current technology. Down the road, Martin could envision a globally connected light platform.
We had the pleasure of working with Martin on defining and planning out the category he envisioned--a process we call category design. Martin and this team settled on a name for the category: Light Sensory Network, or LSN. Martin started evangelizing the

category at the same time as he was building his company. He wanted potential customers to first understand the problems a Light Sensory Network could solve. And if they wanted the problem solved, who were they going to call? Of course: the company that defined and made itself synonymous with category--Sensity. Without this kind of thinking, Sensity would've been just another undifferentiated smart lighting company. But it became the leading Light Sensory Network company.4 Huge global companies entered the business of LED lights and sensors--General Electric, Philips, Samsung, LG. But Sensity, which by 2015 had signed up GE and Cisco as partners, wasn't trying to beat them by making better sensor-loaded LEDs. It planned to win by marketing something different, focused on the network and data. If Sensity executes well, it will reign as an enduring category king of Light Sensory Networks.
Again, this will take time--probably a decade. There's no guarantee the strategy will work. A lot of factors will come into play, many that Martin or Sensity can't control. But still, the chances of Sensity winning are much greater because it is doing the groundwork to design and develop its category. Sensity improved the odds that it will play bigger.
Category Kings Defined
The most exciting companies create. They give us new ways of living, thinking, or doing business, many times solving a problem we didn't know we had--or a problem we didn't pay attention to because we never thought there was another way. Before Uber, we hailed a cab by standing perilously close to traffic with an arm in the air. After Uber, that just seemed dumb.
These companies don't only invent something to sell us. They are not making products or services that just incrementally improve on whatever came before. They don't sell us better. The most exciting companies sell us different. They introduce the world to a new category of product or service--like Clarence Birdseye's frozen food, or Uber's on-demand transportation. They replace our current point

of view on the world with a new point of view. They make what came before seem outdated, clunky, inefficient, costly, or painful.
We hear a lot about "disruption." It's a holy word in the tech industry, like maybe you should genuflect when someone says it. But disruption is a by-product, not a goal. Legendary companies create new categories that generate a gravitational pull on the market. Customers rush to a new category because it makes sense to them. In some cases, people leave an old category behind, and their departure sucks the life out of it. In that way, sure, new categories disrupt old categories. But for the smartest pirates, dreamers, and innovators on the planet, disruption is never the goal. Creation is the goal. Elvis Presley didn't set out to "disrupt" jazz. He set out to create rock and roll--a product that came from his soul. Rock was different, not better, than jazz. But over time, as young audiences embraced rock, they left big-band jazz and crooners behind. The byproduct of Elvis's creation was disruption.
Sometimes, booming new categories don't disrupt anything at all. Airbnb created a new category of on-demand places to stay, but as of this writing no one--including and especially cofounder and CEO Brian Chesky--is predicting the new category will lead to the collapse of the hotel industry.
Our term for the companies that create, develop, and dominate new categories is category kings. Importantly, category kings are not necessarily the companies that first hatch an idea or patent an invention. A single cool product launched into the universe doesn't make a category king. Category kings take it upon themselves to design a great product, a great company, and a great category at the same time. A category king willfully defines and develops its category, setting itself up as the company that dominates that category for a long time.
From time to time, the technology industry gets caught up in hype about soaring valuations of start-ups. But like disruption, valuations are an outcome, not a strategy. A billion-dollar valuation of a company that is not a category king is likely to be fleeting. A billion-dollar valuation of a category king that is creating, developing,

and dominating a new category is often a bargain, in good economies or bad.
Category kings are the explosive and enduring companies that create great value over time--Amazon.com, Salesforce.com, Facebook, Google. They do this by opening up a category with vast potential--we use the term category potential--and set themselves up to take most of the economics of the whole category. Category kings, the data show, usually eat up 70 percent to 80 percent of the category's profits and market value. Our data science analysis of U.S. venture capital­backed tech start-ups founded from 2000 to 2015 shows that category kings earned 76 percent of the market capitalization of their entire market categories. Category kings become some of the most famous brands because they become the symbol of the whole category--Xerox, Google, IKEA. The category king literally owns the problem it is solving. And for that reason, a category king is almost impossible to dislodge from its position in the category. Customers are too wedded to it. That's why Microsoft spent 10 billion on Bing yet never made a dent in Google's share of search. It's almost always futile to try to unseat a category king that's not screwing up.5
This book is about the strategy that builds category kings. Following this strategy doesn't make it certain you'll become a category king, but it will improve your odds. And we believe it will at least help you play bigger than you otherwise might. As we'll show, a category king strategy is important and effective when the economy is roaring, and perhaps even more powerful when downturns cripple runner-up competitors. Some of the great category kings have been built during some of the "worst" times-- Google in the early 2000s right after the dot-com crash; Airbnb in 2008 as financial markets melted; Birds Eye amid the Great Depression.6
Category kings are often the companies that get the most attention in the media and from investors and the public. Facebook defined and developed a new kind of social network that was based on your real life. We'll discuss later how that was different, not

better, compared to social networks before it. Netflix started by creating the category of DVDs by mail (different from Blockbuster) and later created the category of streaming movies. Pixar designed the category of computer-generated movies. Airbnb, Tesla, Snapchat, and Twitter are recent category kings in consumer-facing markets. The enterprise technology space is full of category kings, too. Salesforce.com developed the cloud-based sales automation category. VMware defined and dominated a category of computer virtualization. Workday, Zenefits, NetSuite, and Slack are among the new category kings of business services.
Most category kings are once-in-a-founder's-lifetime achievements. A rare few individuals have proven to be master category king creators. One of the best of all time, as you might imagine, was Steve Jobs, especially during his second go-round at Apple. He led the creation of three important new categories: digital music (with the iPod and iTunes), smartphones (iPhone), and tablets (iPad). Elon Musk made Tesla Motors into the category king of electric cars and SpaceX into the category king of private spaceflight, incredibly doing that for both companies at the same time. Jeff Bezos started out making Amazon.com the category king of online retail, and repeated that success with e-book readers (Kindle) and cloud-based computing services (Amazon Web Services). A lesserknown but no less prolific creator of category kings is Seattle entrepreneur Rich Barton. He had a hand in founding Expedia, Zillow, and Glassdoor.
As noted with Birds Eye, category kings aren't just a connectedage technology phenomenon. When Chrysler introduced the minivan in 1983, it created--and then dominated for three decades--a new category of personal vehicle. Bob Pittman's MTV and Ted Turner's CNN were once category kings. Boeing created the category of jet airliner with its 707 in 1958. Sometimes category kings aren't even a business, yet they define and develop something new in our way of life. Peter Drucker was the category king of management thinking. And of course as we've mentioned, there was Elvis Presley, the category king of rock and roll. Those individuals were not just better

than what came before; they were very different from what came before.
Finally, category kings don't only come from Silicon Valley, or the United States. Global category kings have been born in all corners of the planet. IKEA created a new category of cheap, stylish, do-ityourself furniture out of the tiny town of Älmhult in Sweden, and there's nothing else like it. Estonia gave birth to Skype, which developed the category of Internet phone calls. Australia has given us Atlassian, the category king of collaborative technology for teams that build software. In some businesses, cultural differences or national borders provide an opportunity to create a geographydefined category king. Alibaba built a gigantic category-dominating company by defining itself, essentially, as the Amazon.com of China. Flipkart did the same in India. Neither defined and developed the online retailing category, but they defined and developed online retailing in a different way to address and dominate a vast home market.
For this book, we researched the category kings we just mentioned, and many more, and we'll discuss them in detail in later chapters.
Category King Economics
The economic advantages gained by a category king are staggering, and the trajectory is steeper and faster than ever. The reason has little to do with investor speculation that might prove fickle. It has everything to do with powerful technology trends that are only gaining momentum. The trends are changing the way the most astute venture capitalists invest, which in turn has shaped how entrepreneurs think about the companies they start. Category king economics are influencing CEOs as they consider new offerings and future directions, and affecting the way marketers position and engineers build products. Anybody planning a career needs to be aware of category king economics.
In his 2014 book, Zero to One, super-investor Peter Thiel unequivocally celebrated monopolies, and made it clear that those

are the companies he wants to invest in. "Every monopoly is unique, but they usually share some combination of the following characteristics: proprietary technology, network effects, economies of scale, and branding." As you'll see, he's describing category kings --the companies that take all the economics out of a category. Thiel goes on to say, "All happy companies are different: each one earns a monopoly by solving a unique problem. All failed companies are the same: they failed to escape competition." By Thiel's definition, category kings are the happy companies.7
For years, Mike Maples, one of Silicon Valley's legendary investors, has talked about seeking to put his money into "thunder lizards." That's his term for category kings. "A thunder lizard is a game-changing company that will massively outperform the rest of the industry," he tells the class that he teaches at Stanford University. "Thunder lizards are rare. If in a given year there are 10,000 startups that get funded by angels and 1,500 get a Series A funding, then 80 companies will likely do well--but only 12 will be a thunder lizard."8
In Silicon Valley, we've watched venture capitalists (VCs) increasingly adopt a category king investment philosophy. Paul Martino of Bullpen Capital notes that VCs used to have a "me-too" strategy: if a start-up hit it big and opened up a hot new category, the many VC firms in Silicon Valley assumed that there was room for a lot of winners in that category. So every firm would invest in some company--any company!--in the emerging category. But in this century, that phrase--"room for a lot of winners in that market"-- needs to be banished to the Home for the Criminally Insane. As Martino tells us, it's now apparent that one company wins big and dominates a healthy category, and the rest struggle, get acquired or perish. That means that as soon as one company appears to be the category king, the smart money competes to invest in that company, bidding up its value. That realization among investors is a reason valuations of new category kings spiked so drastically in the 2010s. On the flip side, while me-too companies can get funding early on, they quickly find they have trouble getting new rounds from high-

quality investors who understand category king economics. A lot of the me-toos are a lost cause waiting to happen.9 Bryan Roberts at Venrock, another top-tier VC, tries to spot potential category kings early. "A category king tends to have broken open a new space, and that often means a big risk element early on--something most people think you can't surmount, or that if you do surmount, no one will care," he told us. A company like Snapchat might fall into that latter category. Early on, a lot of people wondered why anyone except teenagers would care about a service that disappears their selfies. But once a category king proves its category works, as Snapchat did, "things go from non-consensus to consensus very quickly, but by then you [the company] have some competitive advantage that's hard to surmount." In Roberts's view, category kings win big--and these days, they win fast.10 Meanwhile, Jim Goetz of Sequoia Capital directly advertises his category creation philosophy: "We seek mission-driven founders who can build a great company and category at the same time."
Various studies point to the power of category kings. Eddie Yoon, a principal at the Cambridge Group, in 2011 published a piece in Harvard Business Review titled "Category Creation Is the Ultimate Growth Strategy." His firm had run an analysis of the top twenty companies on Fortune's 2010 list of fastest-growing companies. Those twenty companies received an average of 3.40 in incremental market capitalization for every dollar of revenue growth. But half of those top twenty were category creators, Yoon determined, and those ten companies got 5.60 in incremental market cap for every dollar of revenue growth. "Wall Street exponentially rewards the category creation companies," Yoon wrote.11 In 2014, consulting giant McKinsey published an article titled "Grow Fast or Die Slow." McKinsey analyzed three thousand software and online companies from 1980 to 2012. It identified a small slice of remarkable companies as "Supergrowers," which pretty much overlaps with our definition of category kings, and proclaimed that wildly fast out-of-the-starting-gate growth predicts long-term

success. Category kings, once established, are almost impossible to displace.
Why is this happening with so much velocity now, especially since category kings have always been a part of the business landscape?
The ubiquity of networks, cheap cloud-based distribution, and lightning-fast word of mouth through social media is intensifying a winner-take-all economy--especially when we're talking about digital products and services. Keep in mind that in 1999, about 400 million people were connected to the Internet. By 2015 that number had rocketed to 3 billion, on its way to 4 billion by 2020. And by 2020 the planet is expected to have 6 billion smartphones in use. At the same time, tens of billions of things like cars, lights, industrial sensors, thermostats, and dog collars are getting connected to networks, while industries that were never digital (taxis, hotels, medicine) are quickly becoming digital. This Internet of Things will make almost everything part of the global network. Since networks give everyone from anyplace access to the perceived best in any category, the vast majority choose the leader and leave the second- or third-best behind. It's the dark side of the "long tail" concept pundits have been talking about for more than a decade: In any category of product or service, one entity gets to be the big and valuable dog, while all the rest wind up in the economically challenging tail. The category king dogs unequivocally wag the second-tier tails.
Once a company wins a position as category king, a flywheel of benefits opens a gap between the leader and the rest. The leader, for example, increasingly has the best data. In today's world, data is power. All those transactions on Amazon give the company valuable insights about its customers, inventory, prices--everything. Same with every ride through Uber, every movie chosen on Netflix, every entry on Salesforce.com. As the leader amasses data, the data becomes an unfair advantage--a gap that the followers can't hope to close. Also, the best employees want to work for the category king. The best partners want to sign deals with the category king. Outside developers want to develop for the category king. The best investors want to put in their money and the best investment

bankers want to work on the IPO. As a category king pulls far ahead economically, it has the wherewithal to make acquisitions that vault it even further into the lead. The economic power of a category king just builds and builds.
In late 2014, one tech industry analyst, Michael Walkley of Canaccord Genuity, looked at the state of profits of smartphone companies and found that Apple took in 93 percent of the industry's total profits.12 Imagine that! Of all the world's smartphone makers, one company--the category king--claimed almost all of the economics. Like it or not, there is increasingly no middle class in business. The wealth goes to the kings. A second-place prince--such as Lyft or Samsung--can get a tidy share of the economics. The rest of the players get relegated to the life of serfs in the category king's empire.
In the mid-2010s, the media became obsessed with fast-rising valuations of tech start-ups. Some of the numbers might've been driven by financial market conditions, which of course can change with the wind. But the big picture, the exuberance has been driven by foundational changes in technology and the economy, and exacerbated by category king economics. If you look closely, you'll see that the highest-valuation start-ups are almost always established or emerging category kings.
Through data, we captured a moment in time that shows the velocity of growth and the yawning gap between kings and the rest. We analyzed valuation data on thousands of tech start-ups, and found that winning companies born between 2009 and 2014 got to superhigh valuations three times faster than companies started in the early 2000s. In other words, in just over a decade, the growth rate of the value of high-growth tech start-ups nearly tripled. But unlike in the tech boom of the late 1990s, that rising tide was floating the yachts while sinking the dinghies.13 A category's nonkings struggled. Our data science research found that a six-year-old start-up that wasn't yet a king had almost zero chance of becoming one.

Here's the category king gap in a nutshell: Uber was valued at 51 billion in late 2015, while at about the same time the number two in that space, Lyft, was valued about 25 times lower, at 2 billion. The rest of that category was barely noticeable. Perhaps the actual values were unsustainably high; perhaps not. But our attention is on the relative value--on Uber being worth 25 times more than Lyft. Investors looked at the future value of the category of on-demand personal transportation and saw one company--the king, Uber-- taking most of it.
We started writing this book amid a frothy up cycle in the tech industry. We have no idea whether by the time you're reading this the tech boom will have tipped into a down cycle. But we're certain that the dynamics and strategies in this book are perpetual. In flush times, a company needs to think like a category king to outrun and outmaneuver all the other competitors that will get funded. In rough times, when money is tight, a king might be the only survivor in a given category. In general, a down cycle is a fantastic opportunity for a category king to dispense with all of its underfunded challengers and come out of the cycle more powerful than ever.
In short, any time--up or down or middling--is a good time to get smarter instead of hoping to get luckier. And thinking like a category king is a smart way to improve your odds of success, instead of leaving it to chance. This is what we mean by playing bigger.
Introducing Category Design
If you play poker, you know of Greg Raymer. He bounced around the Midwest while growing up, got a master's degree in biochemistry from the University of Minnesota, graduated from the University of Minnesota Law School in 1992, then worked as a patent attorney for Pfizer. He'd played lots of poker in college--"we were all pretty pathetic," he recalls. And then, while working in Chicago, he decided it was time to learn to play well. He read poker books and started entering tournaments, perfecting his game as he played. In 2004, he won the World Series of Poker--a 5 million prize. At the World

Series of Poker the following year, he did something unprecedented in a game that seems to involve so much luck: he followed up his first-place victory by finishing in the top tier again, taking home more than 300,000. By 2013 he'd made more than 7.4 million playing poker. Uh, and he quit his day job.
We talked to Raymer about how someone can increase his or her odds in a game that has so many factors that can't be controlled. (Seriously, we don't want to talk to technology people all the time.) "A lot of people don't think about luck and skill properly," he told us. Most people, he explained, think of luck and skill in any particular endeavor as a zero-sum continuum--a straight line that puts luck at one end and skill at the other. That would mean that if you'd say that an outcome is determined by 40 percent luck, it must be 60 percent skill; or if it's 90 percent luck, then the outcome must rely on only 10 percent skill. But luck and skill, Raymer insisted, "are not on the same axis." And that makes all the difference.14
Of course, Raymer used poker to illustrate. There is a great amount of luck involved in which cards you get. But there's also a great amount of skill in deciding what to do with those cards, the bets you place, the way you conduct yourself at the table. On the luck side, the odds for everyone around the table are the same. On any given hand, you might be terribly unlucky, and there would be nothing much you could do to win. But the most skillful players essentially better their odds over time. If the odds are the same for everyone, more skill results in better decisions with the cards you're dealt, and ultimately gives you a better chance of winning. "You have to be realistic about how much luck is involved in whatever you're doing and after that kind of ignore it," Raymer said. "Then you have to say, what's the smartest decision I can make and ignore results in the short run because they are irrelevant." Raymer's consistent success shows that good outcomes don't happen by accident even in chaotic multidimensional games like poker.
Or business. In business, the odds are stacked against any one company becoming a category king. A company can do everything right yet

fall victim to outside forces it can't control. We learned this in the late 1990s before forming Play Bigger, sometimes painfully. Al carved out a brilliant new category of digital immersive sports at Quokka, but technology and broadband networks didn't catch up to his vision fast enough, and the company didn't survive. Christopher had a similar experience at Scient, helping to build a leader in e-commerce consulting that then fell victim to the impact of the dot-com crash on its clients.
If it's become highly desirable for a company to become a category king--if we're in an era when the category king wins big and everyone else goes home--why wouldn't you do everything you can to boost your odds? If the odds are the same for every company, your company needs to make decisions and implement a strategy that gives it the best chance to beat the odds and beat competing companies. An occasional category king might be almost entirely the result of luck. But most category kings are not an accident. Many start out with a lucky break, addressing a seemingly small problem that later taps into big demand at exactly the right time. But those companies usually develop and dominate their new categories by making skillful decisions and executing on a purposeful plan.
We see the emergence of a new discipline in business. We call the discipline category design. It is emerging today in much the way engineers embraced product design in the 1980s to make sure individual products had the best chance of succeeding--of beating the odds. In the early 2000s, companies adopted experience design --a discipline a step up from product design, developed as a way to make sure the mix of hardware, software, and usability together gave the user the best experience possible. Experience design is yet another way to improve the odds of winning in a nutty marketplace.
Category design involves creating a great product (along with its experience), a great company, and a great category at the same time. It is a broad, deep discipline that impacts every part of a company and its leadership team.
We've practiced category design as executives at our own companies in the past, including Macromedia and Mercury

Interactive. With help from our category thinking, Macromedia was sold for 3.5 billion and Mercury for 4.5 billion. We've also researched and analyzed the category king activity around us, particularly in Silicon Valley. More recently, as advisors and coaches, we've worked on category design with a diverse group of companies --in each case with the goal of increasing the chances that the company will have a significant and enduring impact. Our goal in this book is to give you tools to better your odds of getting to your own great outcome.
Bad Category Design: A Cautionary Tale
We can also tell you what category design is not. For instance, it's not what Jawbone practiced. Impressively, three times in its first sixteen years of its existence, Jawbone came up with cool innovations that created a brand-new product category. Not many start-ups ever do that. But three times, Jawbone failed to develop and dominate the category it created. Not many start-ups do that, either.
Jawbone's story began like so many others in Silicon Valley: at Stanford University. A student, Alexander Asseily, working on his senior thesis, drew up plans for a wrist-worn cell phone that wirelessly connected to a headset. That turned into a business plan for a company initially called AliphCom--later changed to Jawbone. While working on the wrist-worn product, which never got made, AliphCom developed headset technology that could be used to suppress background noise while clearly picking up the user's voice. That led to U.S. Defense Department contracts, a few product development missteps, and then, in 2007, a breakthrough device: a small headset that could wirelessly connect to a cell phone using Bluetooth and suppress surrounding noise. Called Jawbone, the product came along just as states were passing laws saying phone calls in cars had to be hands-free. The whole situation was just what category creation is all about. The Jawbone was an agenda-setting solution for a clear problem at the right time. The investment community knew it. As sales of Jawbone devices took flight, top-tier

venture capitalists lined up to give the company money. An IPO seemed likely. But the company didn't cement the Jawbone device's position. It didn't systematically develop the category of high-quality hands-free calling, didn't develop the public's demand for this solution, and didn't get overwhelming publicity and credit for creating the leading solution to the problem. As competitors came out with competing products, Jawbone seemed to the public like just another wireless headset. Put another way, if someone in 2009 decided she needed a wireless headset, the automatic thought probably wasn't that she needed a Jawbone headset. More likely, she'd have thought: I'll go to Best Buy and compare products and prices of wireless headsets and then decide which one to purchase. If consumers are doing that, the category has no king. In retrospect, Jawbone had the opportunity to develop a great product, great company, and great category at the same time, but didn't. It fell short on category design. Jawbone sales veered south by 2009, and a planned IPO was put on hold.
So that was the company's first category whiff. But then in 2010, Jawbone (by then the name of the company itself) came out with a category-defining Bluetooth speaker, the Jambox. Fortune magazine even wrote that Jambox was "creating an entirely new consumer category." And yet Jawbone again left category design on the table. Other companies, such as Bose and Logitech, soon matched the features and quality of the Jambox and the market flooded with competing products. By 2015, the Jambox had only 5 percent of its category's market share.15
Finally, Jawbone seemed poised to invent the wearable fitness tracker category with a device called the UP3. This time, the product didn't get out in the planned time frame, and a start-up company-- Fitbit--barged in and stole the category. In 2015, Fitbit had become the king of wearable fitness trackers, and sopped up 68 percent of the category's market share in North America. The Fitbit brand became synonymous with the category in a way that the Jawbone headset, Jambox speaker, and UP3 tracker never did. The Jawbone company, inventive as it was, could have become an Amazon or

Apple. But its performance failed to live up to its promise, and we believe that while the company got product innovation right, it fell down on category design.
We can tell you some other things category design is not. It's not any of this first-mover advantage bullshit that has been a Silicon Valley calling card since the 1990s. Being first to invent something can be fantastically important, but it doesn't mean squat if you don't define and develop the category. Jawbone is one proof point, but we could cite hundreds. Apple didn't invent any of the product categories it came to dominate. Facebook wasn't the first social network. Tesla didn't make the first electric car. But they all made something different from what came before, and built a category that pulled in customers and made them desire the product. The first inventor is an innovator to be thanked. The first to define and develop a category is a category king to be followed. Category design is not just engineering. Too many people in Silicon Valley believe that building a great product is enough, and that the market will find it and flock to it. That's a disease that has infected even the best and brightest minds. In fact, the best product doesn't always win the category. Different wins. Great category thinking wins. Best product gets you an award at a TechCrunch conference. Category design is also not just marketing. Category design is a company-wide strategy. It involves the CEO and top management, product designers, engineers, sales, marketing, PR, partners--and often customers and users, too. We've heard CEOs sing the refrain: "We make shit and sell shit and everything else is bullshit." Well, good luck with that. While you're making shit and selling shit, someone else will define your category and steal it from you. Category design isn't just positioning or branding. We have great respect for the seminal 1970s book Positioning, by Al Ries and Jack Trout.16 Their sense of positioning as a necessary discipline was on the mark for the late twentieth century. But in this century of mobile/social/cloud, dynamics have changed, and positioning is only one part of category design. And as for branding--we call branding

agencies "tattoo parlors." You don't want to wake up with Mike Tyson's tattoo on your face, so don't let someone else tattoo you. Brands don't make a category king. Category design does.
Here's How We Did This Book
The three of us in Play Bigger came into this book project with our intimate experiences and gut feelings about category-based strategy. We had been at the top levels of companies, some of which became category kings for a period of time. We came together to advise companies about the ideas behind category design, and as we did, we learned more.
To test our ideas, we started by crunching data so we could understand both the game and the timing of the game. We pulled in data on thousands of public and private technology companies started between 2000 and 2015, and sorted for valuation and market-domination trends. This helped us identify companies that defined, developed, and then dominated a category of product or service that did not exist previously. In our reckoning, there were thirty-five giant category kings created from 2000 to 2015. Others have emerged since then.
Once we had those thirty-five, we researched them to look for patterns. In this way, we could check our beliefs against the characteristics and best practices of living, breathing category kings. As it started to become clear to us what made a king, we looked for other kings that wouldn't have shown up in our study--older companies like Birds Eye, or emerging kings like Sensity--and added those to our bag of research. We also looked at companies that tried but failed to become category kings, or somehow lost their category crown.
As common characteristics emerged, we sorted them into buckets and drew out principles. The buckets make up the chapters of the rest of this book.
Ten Reasons You Shouldn't Read the Rest of This Book

1. You think the company with the best product wins. 2. You believe there is room for a lot of winners in a market, that
a rising tide lifts all boats, and other feel-good hippy garbage. 3. You're okay with being good enough. 4. You're afraid to lean forward on your skis while you're already
going 80 miles per hour downhill. 5. You're an engineer who thinks marketing is what you do when
you have a bush-league product. 6. You're a classically trained marketer who thinks reach and
frequency win the game. 7. You believe heady competition is the ideal. 8. You think an IPO is just a financial event. 9. You think you're not in the technology business and never will
be, so you don't think tech industry dynamics apply--you know, the way the taxi industry used to think. 10. You work at SAP.17

2
Category Is the New Strategy
Why Categories
A brief history of books that marked milestones in market thinking: Thirty-five years ago, at the height of the TV age, two marketing
experts published Positioning--about maneuvering a product to the top of an existing market.1
In 1991, as the microprocessor brought computing to the masses, another book, Crossing the Chasm, focused on the marketing challenges of innovation--developing a new product for an existing market.2
In 1997, with the dot-com explosion taking hold, The Innovator's Dilemma introduced the concept of disruptive innovation--how a radically innovative product upends an existing market.3
Today the powerful transforming force is the category--creating a new market for a new product, often (but not always) from a new company. A great message, a great product, a great innovation-- these things are no longer enough on their own. Now it's critical to develop a great new market category in concert with building a great company and product.
We see a link between brain science and the business strategy of modern category kings. Let us explain . . .
The dynamics described in Positioning, Chasm, and Innovator's Dilemma haven't gone away. If anything, they've been kicked into hyperspeed. Positioning almost quaintly describes a 1970s landscape where "there are just too many products, too many companies, and too much marketing noise." And that was when most TVs pulled in

three channels, rotary-dial phones were bolted to walls, and the only way to "google" something was to go to the local library.
In this century, the landscape has changed dramatically. Google, founded in 1998, got momentum around 2000. Facebook was founded in 2004, giving the entire world a common online social network. In 2006, Amazon.com essentially invented public cloud computing when it unveiled Amazon Web Services (AWS). Apple introduced the iPhone in 2007. Together those products and services laid the foundation for a new era driven by mobile devices, social networks, cloud computing, and data about everything. In the 2000s, Agile Software Development caught on, accelerating the ability to get new code out the door. New forms of financing such as crowd funding and angel investor networks coupled with the rise of start-up accelerators made it easier than ever to raise money for new companies, while at the same time the cost of everything involved in starting a tech company (aside from insanely expensive office space in Silicon Valley) fell through the floor. If in 2000 a new company would spend 1 million on technology to get a first viable product to market, by 2015 the cost to do the same had dropped to something like 10,000.4 Meanwhile, a new generation of customers --Millennials, born since the 1980s--entered the market. They have lived their entire lives in the digital era and demand inexpensive, mobile, connected products and services. By 2020 this generation will make up half the workforce, driving business purchase decisions.
So starting a company and launching a product are cheaper and easier than any time in history, and that means that for every wellknown problem, hundreds of solutions can instantly appear out of nowhere. Brand names you can't pronounce let alone remember pop up overnight. It's hard to know a Yik Yak from an itBit or a Nuzzel. The number of choices make it almost impossible to figure out which product to buy. Potential customers, whether they are consumers or enterprise buyers, easily wind up overwhelmed by the solutions pitched to them. It becomes much easier--much clearer--for people to think primarily in terms of the problem they want to solve. In that sense, a problem is a category. A company that best frames a

problem is the company that often comes to define and take the category. Put another way: winning companies today market the problem, not just the solution.
For potential customers, categories become an organizing principle. The public comes to understand the problem that's been defined, and then demands a product or service that solves it. Uber initially built its new category around a simple, clear problem: taxi service usually sucks. As Uber expanded, it opened up more category potential by framing a broader problem: how can you reliably get around town without a car? Uber had to get people to understand that this was a problem that could be solved in a new, technology-based way. As often happens, it was a problem many people didn't know could be solved.
Once the public understands the problem, people latch on to the most popular solution. Given all of the product and service choices people must make, it can get too burdensome to research every offering. So we pick the leader. Global networks, search engines, and social media allow everyone to quickly identify the top solution. Almost as soon as the problem--the category--is well understood, customers find the most popular solution and flock to it. Especially for digital products and services, there is no reason for anyone to settle for what they see as second or third best. Everyone who wants the best can get the best, instantly. The perceived best takes almost all of the market share; second best manages to hold on to enough to keep going; and the rest get pretty much nothing.
The ideas behind categories and how customers organize their buying decisions have been understood for some time. Even in the 1970s, Ries and Trout described how, "[t]o cope with complexity, people have learned to simplify everything." They added: "The ranking of people, objects, and brands is not only a convenient method of organizing things but also an absolute necessity to keep from being overwhelmed by the complexities of life." (Amazing, right? People in the seventies were overwhelmed! A real-life Austin Powers, frozen since the sixties and revived in the 2010s, would blow his brain's circuits by just walking into a Costco or looking at an iPhone App Store.) And even back then, as Ries and Trout explained,

marketers knew that winning a category meant everything. "History shows that the first brand into the brain gets twice the long-term market share of the No. 2 brand and twice again as much as the No. 3 brand," they wrote. "And the relationships are not easily changed."5
What's different now, though, is the sheer magnitude and velocity of this dynamic. The 1970s saw, compared to today, few new products or new categories because barriers to entry were so high. New products--almost always physical in that nondigital age-- had to be manufactured and distributed. Getting the word out involved buying costly advertising on TV or in print. Today, an offering like Slack or Snapchat can be built by a handful of people in someone's basement and distributed globally through the cloud with one mouse click. If people like it, it goes viral on social networks. No need to buy 30 million Super Bowl ads. The complexity Ries and Trout described has gone exponential, which makes the need to categorize more powerful than ever. Few people have the time or brain capacity to make buying decisions any other way. So people look for ways to make fewer choices in the face of more choices.6 "Increased choice among goods and services may contribute little or nothing to the kind of freedom that counts," writes Barry Schwartz in Paradox of Choice. "Indeed, it may impair freedom by taking time and energy we'd be better off devoting to other matters."7
The category as an organizing principle is supported by research on the brain and cognitive biases, as described by Nobel Prize winner Daniel Kahneman in his book Thinking, Fast and Slow, and by a host of brain scientists.8 Our brains are governed by more than fifty different cognitive biases that push us toward decisions based not on facts and logic, but on instincts that can be at odds with facts and logic. It's a shortcut system in our brain--a way to make decisions faster and easier, especially when overwhelmed by too much information.
One of the cognitive biases is called the Anchoring Effect. It's a tendency for an early bit of information to affect our view of all the

information that comes after. For instance, the first offer put on the table in a negotiation has a powerful impact on any other offer that comes after. So in category dynamics, an early company that solves the problem will win a powerful place in customers' minds. It becomes an anchor. Other companies coming afterward get judged against that early company. Another bias that kicks in is the Choice Supportive Bias--the tendency to give positive qualities to an option we've chosen just because we've chosen it. This means that once you've committed to a product or service in a new category, you're likely to feel certain that it is the best even if something slightly better comes along. This helps explain why category kings can't be dethroned by a competing product or service that's simply better. Once people have chosen a king, they will always tend to believe the king is better, even if it's not. This reality explains why companies with superior technology can still lose category wars. Once a king emerges customers believe it's the best, regardless of any evidence to the contrary.
The category king concept also plays out in humans' pack mentality. Groupthink Bias describes a tendency to believe things because other people do. Brain studies have shown that when we hold an opinion that differs from others' in a group, our brains produce an error signal, warning us that we are probably wrong. In a category, the Groupthink Bias brings momentum to an emerging category king--customers embrace the king because so many other customers have embraced the king. For some people the pressure to make important buying decisions is not unlike the feeling of being under threat. Research from Vladas Griskevicius at the University of Minnesota shows that when people are threatened they seek safety in numbers. "In the pack we feel less vulnerable, less likely to get eaten when the critter cannot see us because we blend in with the crowd. The group is our haven, our shield."9 As a result, the people who already own iPads make the people thinking about buying iPads feel safer about the decision. The need to fit in is a uniquely human behavior and begins as early as two years old. "Conformity is a very basic feature of human sociality," said Daniel Haun, a psychological

scientist at the Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology.10 Studies show that people will and do change their minds to fit in. MRI scans of people changing their minds to conform to a group show that two critical reward-related regions in our brain are stimulated when we change our minds to be like others. It turns out we want to buy from category kings because our brains feel safe and happy when we do.
Category thinking works because it's the way our brains work. More important, it's the mode of thinking that our brains turn to when faced with exactly the kind of overstimulated, crazy-ass marketplace we have today and will have in spades in coming years.
We further developed a link between a category-based strategy and brain science by studying market caps of public companies.
We analyzed the total value created by every technology IPO from 2000 to 2015, and found something remarkable.11 We found a consistent "sweet spot" window. The data show that the best time for a company to go public is when it is between six and ten years old. Oracle, Cisco, Qualcomm, Google, VMware, and Red Hat are among the many enduring category kings that went public in the sweet spot window. Most of the companies that went public in the sweet spot are ones we'd identify as category kings.
We found that the age of a company at IPO even mattered more to post-IPO value creation than the amount invested in a company while it was still private. Seriously! There is zero correlation between the amount of money raised by a company before it goes public and its post-IPO value creation. The only consistent factor that mattered in our study was the age of the company. Huh?!12
We got an aha when we looked at the research of Paul Geroski, author of The Evolution of New Markets. Geroski's research explains the stages in the evolution of a new market--that is, a new category. In a market's earliest stage, the number of companies (he calls them providers) in the space explodes. This is the phase when the new category is first defined and a gaggle of entrants are scrambling to solve the problem. In the middle phase, the number of companies dives as the king emerges and competitors disappear (because the

king starts sucking up all the economics). In the last phase the number of companies bottoms out as the king dominates and reigns over the market. Inspired by his work, we created the category lifecycle model [figure 1].
Adapted from: P.A. Geroski, "The Evolution of New Markets", Oxford University Press, 2009 Figure 1. The category lifecycle model shows the evolution of markets. As the market catches on, the total market cap of the companies in that market rises and the number of competitors falls. Category kings usually are solidified around the time those lines cross.
Now, as Geroski also showed, the market value of the whole category rises slowly in the first stage as a category gets on its feet, then like a rocket in the middle stage as the category catches on. In the last stage--the domination stage--value peaks and then tails off as the category matures.
Right in the middle of the category lifecycle model, the two lines --number of vendors and total category value--cross. Those lines cross when a category takes hold, a clear king emerges, the public understands the problem and solution, and investors pour money into the category and its king. It's the moment of category explosion.

Let's go back to our sweet spot research. We overlaid it on the category lifecycle model and saw that the sweet spot lands right around the moment Geroski's lines cross. That seems to show that the best time for a category-creating company to go public (our data) and the moment of category explosion are the same. And in the post-Internet era, that's consistently been about six to ten years after the first companies are founded in the category. We call this the 6­10 law. [Figure 2] (Pre-Internet, categories took a little longer to spread throughout a market. In 1986, Microsoft went public in its sweet spot, and it was eleven years old.)
We ruminated until our heads hurt13 looking for an explanation of why categories almost always take hold at about the same age.
Eventually, we circled back to brain science and cognitive biases. It takes a certain amount of time for people to shift their thinking and then change their buying behavior. Our brains can only accept a new problem and new solution so fast. The time it takes will be different depending on the scale of the problem. Certainly it's quicker for a teenager to discover Snapchat and change behavior around sending teenager stuff to friends than it is for a corporate IT chief to discover Salesforce.com and buy into a new way to run critical business operations. But that's why we see a span of six to ten years in the sweet spot. Simple consumer categories catch hold on the earlier side; complex enterprise categories take longer. But the absolutely essential point: It always takes time to define a category, develop it, and change the way we see a problem and its solution. And that time is measured in years.

Age of Company at IPO (years)
Figure 2. The 6­10 Law. The companies that create the most post-IPO value go public when they're around six to ten years old, and around the same time category kings typically win their crown.
What does all this mean for a CEO, founder, or category creator of any kind? Your number one job is to change the way people think. Your product, your company culture, your marketing--everything has to be aligned with transforming the way potential customers think. If you change the way they think, they will change their buying behavior. More important, if you are the company that changes the way people think, people will see your company as the category king, and you will win the majority of the customers.
That's why category is the new strategy.
And So: The Category Strategy

When Bill Gates ran Microsoft, he brilliantly created huge categories, most notably the PC operating system and office productivity suite. But Gates had a hard time seeing past his category-defining success, Windows. Oh, how he loved him some Windows. The old saying goes that when you have a hammer, everything looks like a nail, and Gates's hammer was Windows, so to him every problem looked like it should be solved using Windows.
In 2002, Gates unveiled what Microsoft called its Tablet PC. Now, by that time, lots of companies had made runs at some kind of tabletlike computer, usually with the idea that you could write on it with a stylus, as if you were jotting down notes in a meeting. In fact, for a few years in the late 1980s and early 1990s, "pen-based computing" made investors and engineers more excited than a teenage girl at a One Direction concert, certain as they were that this was the next big thing. Two pen computers, the GRiDPad and EO, made spectacular splashes. But those products were expensive and didn't do enough to be worthwhile. Nobody really understood what problem they solved. Before long, those early tablet computers disappeared.
But Gates believed in tablet computing and pushed development of a device at Microsoft. So confident was he in tablet computing, when he announced the Tablet PC he chirped, "Within five years, I predict it will be the most popular form of PC sold in America."
However, the Tablet PC ran Windows--the same Windows designed for laptops and desktops. Even the name "Tablet PC" gave away its genetic defect: it wasn't defining any new category, but instead was trying to be a PC in a slightly different form factor--a form factor that wasn't really suited for the kinds of things people usually did with PCs. Looking back a decade after the announcement, Computerworld magazine wrote: "Rather than envision what people would really want to do with a tablet and then design the hardware for that, Microsoft instead force-fit Windows XP onto it. Windows XP was a great desktop operating system, but it was bloated overkill for a tablet." Within five years, instead of flying

off Best Buy shelves as Gates foretold, the Tablet PC was a goner. It failed to create or spark a new category.14
Eight years after Gates's announcement, Apple CEO Steve Jobs took the stage for one of his famously dramatic product unveilings. The room went dark, and Jobs put up a picture of an iPhone and a MacBook laptop, with a question mark in between. "Is there room for a third category of device in the middle?" Jobs said to the audience. He dismissed past efforts to fill that spot, saying they were just bad laptops. But, he said, there had to be a place in our lives for a device that is "so much more intimate than a laptop and so much more capable than a smartphone." With that, he showed the first iPad. And then Jobs uttered the magic words--the words that showed Apple had thought about this new product in a new way. The "iPad creates and defines an entirely new category of devices that will connect users with their apps and content in a much more intimate, intuitive and fun way than ever before."15
The iPad wasn't a laptop or a phone. It solved a new problem particular to the mobile-social-cloud era: people needed a device that they could carry around and use to watch videos, shop, read magazines, or muck around on Facebook. It didn't have to have the power and bulk of a laptop, but it did need a bigger screen than a smartphone. Jobs had identified a new problem, and developed a new kind of product to solve it. As he announced the iPad, Jobs made us see that we had this problem--even if we didn't think we did--and that Apple had the very best solution ever. Jobs intentionally, willfully, strategically created a new category and put the iPad at the top of it from day one. The product itself was not Apple's strategy. Selling more of a certain kind of software was not Apple's strategy. Creating the category was Apple's strategy.
Of course, it worked. In the first year, Apple sold about 15 million iPads, representing more than 10 billion in revenue. And soon after, copycat tablets showed up from competitors from around the world, including Samsung, LG, and eventually Microsoft. As almost always happens, though, the copycats barely impugned upon the category king's dominant share of the category's economics.16

Category as a strategy is not only for tech companies. Manoj Bhargava was born in India, moved to the United States when he was fourteen, dropped out of Princeton his freshman year, lived as a monk back in India for twelve years, moved back to the United States, then started a plastics company. In the early 2000s, as he wandered around a natural products trade show in Anaheim, California, Bhargava stopped at a booth selling a sixteen-ounce can of some liquid that was supposed to boost productivity for hours and tasted like absolute crap. "For the next six or seven hours, I was in great shape," the notably reclusive Bhargava told Forbes magazine. "I thought, wow, this is amazing. I can sell this." Yet he knew there was a reason these drinks hadn't caught on. At sixteen ounces, they were sold against other drinks such as Coca-Cola or Starbucks's Frappuccinos. Since energy drinks usually taste bad, they were mainly seen as bad drinks loaded with a ton of caffeine. "I thought, if I'm tired, am I also thirsty?" Bhargava said. "Is that like having a headache and a stomachache? It didn't make any sense."17
Bhargava saw an opening for a new category: the energy shot. It would be something that hadn't existed before, sold not against drinks but on its own, near the cash register in stores. In six months he came up with a concentration of caffeine and B vitamins that he could package in a tiny red two-ounce bottle. The brand name was straightforward: 5-hour Energy. It broke through by solving a clear problem in a new way. The problem was that people got tired and needed a boost to study or work or drive. The new solution was one quick shot that would provide that boost for five hours, without making you drink a whole can of awful. In a crowded market of drinks and caffeinated potions, Bhargava created, then developed and dominated a brand-new category. By 2011, 5-hour Energy hit 1 billion in sales, and the company commanded 90 percent of the energy shot category. Bhargava became a billionaire--and committed 90 percent of his earnings to charity. Much like Apple with its iPad, the category was Bhargava's strategy. He envisioned the category and how to build it, evangelized the problem, then created the product and company to attack it.

A lot of venture capitalists like to say, "We invest in great teams." But a great team is nothing without a great category. A great team in a lousy category or a me-too position in an existing category is a losing cause. But if a middling team stumbles on a great category, the category will make heroes of the team. The product doesn't have to be an engineering marvel, either--it just has to be good enough to satisfy the category.
When the right product and right company connect to a strong category, the category literally pulls the product or service out of the company. We see that all the time with these rocketing start-ups, from Facebook in the early 2000s to Slack in the mid-2010s. Once the category's problem gets defined, the market demands the solution, and potential customers will turn to the consensus solution with ferocity. In a well-honed category-driven strategy, the company designs the category, evangelizes the problem, offers its solution to the problem, and then the category makes the company its king. The greatest power comes from the people proclaiming their own king. A self-determined king that isn't made by the category is a hollow despot destined to be overthrown at the first sign of weakness.
This is why a category-based strategy requires the design of a great product, a great company, and a great category at roughly the same time. They are of a piece--designed to work together to change the way people think. We depict the strategy as a triangle, with each side of equal importance. (Actually, we prefer to think of it as a bar stool with three legs required to keep us firmly seated in front of our beers, but a triangle is easier to draw.) Category-driven strategy looks like this [Figure 3]:

Figure 3. The magic triangle: to improve the odds of becoming a category king, companies should engage in product design, company design, and category design at roughly the same time.
Product design is the purposeful building of a product and experience that solves the problem the market needs solved. The goal is what is traditionally called a great product/market fit--in other words, a great product/category fit. In the tech start-up world, most companies actually begin with a product--a couple of folks messing around in a garage to make something.
Company design is the purposeful creation of a business model and an organization with a culture and point of view that fits with the category. The goal is a great company/category fit.
Category design is the mindful creation and development of a new market category, designed so the category will pull in customers who will then make the company its king. In marketing terms it's "the air wars." It's about winning the war for popular opinion, teaching the world to abandon the old and embrace the new. Category design builds the profile of the space while drawing

attention to the company creating it. The next chapter will go into a deeper exploration of category design.
All three elements--company design, product design, and category design--work together and balance each other to exert great force on a company's success and value. The legendary, enduring companies get the three elements of company design, product design, and category design in such a state of synchronicity, they reinforce each other and build momentum in a flywheel effect. We'll discuss the flywheel in greater detail in chapter 8.
The triangle of design might look like it is specific to start-up companies, but that's not the only way it works. Enduring companies that build powerful flywheels create and expand categories over and over. As we'll get to later in the book, Amazon.com has been a master at creating new categories at the same time as it creates a new product while also making sure the company fits the category. It did this with the Kindle e-reader and with Amazon Web Services cloud computing. Corning has pulled off this kind of strategy over and over for 165 years, and is still doing it today with new categories of glass that never before existed. One of the greatest category creation events in computing history was orchestrated by IBM when it brought out its System/360 computer in 1964, more than fifty years after the company was founded.
The triangle can work in more circumscribed ways, too. Every department inside a larger business is essentially creating a product or service of some kind, and would benefit from thinking about the category it serves and how the department and its offering plug into that category. Individuals can think this way about their careers. The most successful people identify a category, an offering (what they can uniquely do that the category needs), and a personal culture and point of view (who they are and how they think) at the same time. Muhammad Ali created a category of showman-boxer, perfectly suited to the emerging age of television, that hadn't existed before. The category reflected what he could do and how he thought, and he completely dominated it for the rest of his career. No one else emerged who could compete with him. Harry Potter author J. K. Rowling did the same, inventing an intellectual young-adult fiction

category and making herself the category king. The principles of category thinking also apply to the kinds of people at the office who build their careers by successfully developing a niche and putting themselves at the top of it.
Google, Through a Category Lens
Few companies start on day one with all three points of the triangle firmly planned out. Some companies begin with a team that just wants to work together, essentially beginning with company design. Some companies get their start because an entrepreneur thinks up a new product, starting at product design. And some companies begin with a vision for a category--like Bhargava of 5-hour Energy, who then had to design a product and company to tackle the category. Still, legendary companies quickly move past their initial impetus and grasp category thinking, embracing all three points of the triangle. However they start, these companies quickly move to designing the product, company, and category in parallel.
With that in mind, we want to tell you the story of Google in a way you probably hadn't considered. A lot of people think Google was just a better search engine when it appeared in 2000. Even Google had bought into the classic engineering conceit that echoes the Field of Dreams mantra, "If you build it, they will come." Just make a great product and people will find it. That kind of thinking makes it hard to understand why Google became such a juggernaut even though a bunch of reasonably popular search engines already existed. If it was just a better product in an existing category, how did it become a category king?
But there's another, revealing way to look at Google's success. Before Google, all sorts of search engines proliferated: Alta Vista, Lycos, Infoseek, Ask Jeeves, AllTheWeb, and more. They seemed awesome at the time because nothing like a search engine had ever existed. But none of those search engines made real money--the only way they could monetize search was through banner ads, which never worked well for anybody. None of them broke out from the pack and led the market. They all worked off a similar idea: their

