HOST CALL TRANSCRIPT: ANDREAS
Date: [From original data]
Duration: ~6 minutes
Agent: Bryant
Host Type: [To be determined]

---

0:09 Hi, this is Brian. Hi, Brian, how are you? Good. How are you doing? It's awesome. How can I help you?

0:15 Yeah, so I reached out, I don't know if you remember, I texted you about the, uh, Washington Heights. I was just building, I'm actually building a bar in my house.

0:23 So talk to me. Yes. Could I get your name? I don't think I ever got your name. Just so I got it.

0:36 Yeah. So I had, So There was two roommates interested in, uh, your place. Um, So units available. I have one that is, don't want to take that picture on.

0:50 I do look at it through a rent hub or, or I'm on a Craigslist is where I found the Washington Heights apartment.

1:03 Yeah. Yeah. I have two units. One of them is on the fifth floor walk up. Yep. And then the other one is the one is a second floor.

1:10 Walk up with the Butte. Uh, put a picture of Dale. How you look like Both of them are available. I can show them both.

1:18 Um, um, yeah, on either later today or tomorrow, our site Monday, normally on Saturdays and Sundays, I believe to my showings.

1:29 Yeah, I had, I had a question. Are they, um, are they furnished? It looks like in the pictures, they are not, but are the, And these ones are, these ones are 12 month leases on furniture.

1:43 You can request the apartment a hundred percent, but that's an, a, an extra monthly cost. I don't know if you know about some companies that furnish your place for an extra, you know, $600 a month or something like that.

1:58 Um, I'll just tell you a little bit about myself. So I work for a company called split lease, um, and Ariel and Amber both came to us individually and we matched them as roommates.

2:10 So they're both looking there. They both live in Connecticut and need a space. Um, they were looking around like Harlem, the Washington Heights area works as well.

2:19 I'll needed a space basically just to come back to, uh, during the week for work. Um, so they're both working in the city and are looking for essentially, they'd be using it just to sleep each night, but we had matched them as roommates on him now looking for a place for them to stay.

2:35 So I know that they would be interested in a furnished space. Um, but in terms of your location, uh, in, in the pricing, it looks like this is something that could work for them.

2:43 Um, we have a customer rental agreement, um, which, uh, sort of defines the relationship between Ariel and Amber they've even met each other already.

2:54 Uh, and we define like the cleaning responsibilities as well as, um, like storage and other things as well. And I'd be happy to share that with you.

3:02 Um, and then another question I wanted to ask was about a deposit and if that's something that you require, That's something that I do require I require, uh, this is, uh, first month.

3:16 Okay. Okay. Oh, and then what would the broker's fee be? The amount one month. Okay. Three months. Okay. Got it.

3:28 And then also, so, um, we collect payment from the guests and guarantee that to you as the landlord. Um, so essentially we we've run a credit check and it vetted both Ariel and Amber.

3:42 Um, and we do that on our end since we're guaranteeing the payments. Um, and we pre-authorize the charges to them at the signing of the agreement.

3:51 Uh, and then that way, uh, that's basically how we're able to guarantee payments to you. And that's again in the agreement.

3:58 Um, and like I mentioned, I can send that over to you, but it sounds like this is something, uh, that could work for Ariel and Amber.

4:06 Um, and If you want to come take a look with them or also in myself or one of my agents to go and open the doors for you, uh, would that have been said excellent credit on every single tenant easternmost and many times.

4:26 Yup. Yup. And we require that. And if that would be something that we have that information, if, if you would like to, uh, have that as well, that's something we can say.

4:36 Okay. Um, and then if you guys want to furnish the apartment on your end, that's on your metal plus. Okay.

4:45 And then you said you also work or there would be an option as well, just like a monthly, a monthly charge to furnish it as well.

4:54 Um, there are other companies that, you know, take care of that, uh, they have to go themselves and pick up, pick the things that they want for a couple of bed or whatever things that they want, the more things that got scrapped to furnish your apartment, the more money you're going to end up paying every month.

5:12 So if you're telling me that they just go there to sleep, I think just a bad things for the kitchen.

5:18 I'm going to continue as well equipped. And my both units come with a microwave. Yep. I see that. So Robin.

5:27 Yep. Got it. And then also it says laundry in the building. Is that right? Okay. In both. Okay, awesome. Um, could I get your email, uh, just send over some information, Uh, tests you might email of this number and whatever questions you guys have.

5:44 You can just email me at any time. Yep. And same to me as well. If you have any questions for me, I'll probably, I'll, I'd love, I'd love to see that other place as well.

5:54 You said, uh, is it it's in a similar location to the Literally one block further. Perfect. Take a look at the two places.

6:03 Alright. Sounds good. Thanks so much. It's it's Andreas, right? Andress. Okay, awesome. Yeah. I'll, I'll be, uh, reaching out to you shortly after the call.

6:11 If you could send over your email. And that sounds good. All right. We'll see. I have a, today.

---

KEY BEHAVIORAL OBSERVATIONS:
- Multiple units available (2 apartments in Washington Heights)
- Offers furnishing option for extra monthly cost
- Requires first month + deposit + one month broker's fee (3 months upfront)
- Emphasizes credit requirements ("excellent credit on every single tenant")
- Practical mindset ("if they just go there to sleep, just a bed, things for kitchen")
- Available for showings on weekends
- Laundry in building for both units
- Responsive and engaged throughout call
