HOST CALL TRANSCRIPT: ANTHONY
Date: [From original data]
Duration: ~6 minutes
Agent: Bryant
Host Type: Passive Landlord

---

0:00 Uh, you weren't called has been forwarded to an automated voice messaging system. Hey, is this Anthony? Hey, this is Brian.

0:26 Good. How are you doing? Yeah, thanks for taking the time to talk. I'm glad we got to set this up.

0:34 I just had a couple of questions about the space, and then if you had any questions for me, I'd love to answer those.

0:40 Um, but I know I saw originally mentioned Ariel and Amber, uh, as the two roommates were interested. And then, uh, just to confirm the police would be available June 1st to August 30th.

0:52 Yes. Okay. And then, uh, it would be 3000 for the month, and then I thought you mentioned, uh, utilities were included.

1:00 Is that right? Yes. Okay. Uh, and then, um, is there a, a damage deposit on the space? Yeah, there's a security deposit.

1:11 3000. Got it. Um, and then I think I saw it mentioned there's no laundry, uh, in this space. Is there maybe something close by that you know of?

1:22 Yes, there's an offsite. There's a laundry bag. Uh, Okay, got it. Okay, great. Um, and then the parking situation, uh, is there there's street parking available?

1:38 I thought you mentioned, is that right? Yes. Yes. Street parking, uh, pragmatism garages, uh, down the street you can use.

1:47 Uh, and that's like, uh, I don't know how much money it is a months. Okay. A bit but paid, uh, a paid garage nearby.

1:55 Okay. Got it. Um, yeah, so I can, I can tell you a little bit about myself. I've actually worked for a company called split lease and Ariel and Amber were two guests who came to us individually.

2:09 Uh, and essentially what we do is match, um, people as roommates, um, to sort of go in and, uh, rent a space together.

2:19 And Ariel and Amber are both in similar situations. So they both actually live in Connecticut, but need a space in Manhattan, uh, for work.

2:28 And I think I sent you their, their LinkedIn profiles. Um, so ideally, like I mentioned, they're kind of looking for something, uh, to start sooner.

2:38 Um, but this is something they're looking for, something long-term. So in the case that they don't get anything sooner, or maybe they get a space until June, uh, this is something that could work for them.

2:51 Uh, and if not them, uh, we have plenty of other guests in similar situations. Like I mentioned, basically living outside of New York city now, or specifically Manhattan, uh, but need to be, uh, staying there.

3:06 Um, usually for work is, are, is for the people that we help, uh, but we have our own lease agreement.

3:11 Uh, and I know you mentioned, uh, the deposit, uh, slightly, some doubles, uh, and matches the deposit, which is set by you.

3:18 So in this case, we'd be matching the 3000 deposit that you mentioned. Um, we also guarantee payments to you as well.

3:26 So upon the signing of the agreement, uh, all payments guaranteed to you, uh, that you set. So in the case that I guess didn't pay or missed a payment, we cover that.

3:37 And, uh, like I mentioned, it's guaranteed to you. Okay. Um, and I'd be happy to share some information with you on that.

3:48 Um, and also I see that there isn't any pictures here. Is there, would that be possible for you to share, uh, some photos with me of the, Um, yeah, I can send you some photos.

4:02 Okay. So you've got two people, right? Two women. Okay. Yeah. That's a cleat side that I saw that And we have a cell phone out then the, uh, Yup.

4:20 Yup. They know that and that's, um, yeah, that would work for them, Brian. Yep. And maybe if I could grab, uh, your email and then maybe I can, um, I can send you an email shortly after this call and maybe if you could send me some photos and I'd be happy to send, uh, information, uh, about split lease over to you as well.

4:42 Okay. Um, it's uh, H L M a J H H O M a J H@aol.com.com.

4:58 And this is a tech, this is a cell phone. I could probably texting pictures. Oh yeah. Yep. That works too, if that's easier.

5:04 Yeah, you can. Um, and if you have any other questions or anything like that or anything after the call, uh, you can feel free to text me, text me, or email either.

5:15 Uh, anything else from me or any questions for me, Anthony? Uh, no, no, no payment to, uh, to us the there's a, there's a fee charge to the guests.

5:26 Uh, it's just a service fee for basically the matching and then, um, kind of the negotiating of the space and, and, uh, finding them a place to stay.

5:36 Okay. There's also a $250 a one time cleaning the Question compared to the apartment for them. Okay. Okay. Sounds good.

5:50 Um, and then, uh, it's could you give me the close cross streets? I thought it was mentioned in the post.

5:58 Was it, um, 1 57 west 80th street. Okay, got it. Yep. Okay. Thank you very much. Um, yeah. All good on my end, Anthony, anything else for me?

6:14 Okay, sounds good. Uh, you can expect an email from me and then yeah, for the, for the pictures texting or email work.

6:21 So thanks a lot. All right. Have a good rest of your day. Let's see.

---

KEY BEHAVIORAL OBSERVATIONS:
- Extremely brief responses: "Yes." "Okay." "Got it."
- Zero questions beyond logistics (laundry, parking, deposit)
- AOL email address (older demographic indicator)
- Listed but NO PHOTOS uploaded (incomplete onboarding)
- Passive engagement - no relationship building
- Accepts payment guarantee without questions
- Flat emotional affect throughout
- Will text photos rather than use platform
- **PERFECT CO-HOST CANDIDATE - won't self-serve setup**
