HOST CALL TRANSCRIPT: CHANTEL
Date: [From original data]
Duration: ~30 minutes
Agent: Bryant
Host Type: Urban Host / Jersey City / Product Feedback Session

---

00:01 Yeah, I'd love to hear you. You did get a chance to look at the page.

00:06 Yeah. I'd love, love To hear any initial thoughts or questions before we, before I say anything really, if you can.

00:14 Um, well, I will say first when I went on the website, uh, let's see, we just updated this page, please refresh for the latest version. There was some things I clicked on that. Nothing that did not, the links did not work.

00:25 Okay. Um, yeah, so let's see. The first one was on the, on the top near the banner where it says book a trial night today starting at 1 49 prices go up to one. I've been trying to click on that, that, that link and nothing happens

00:46 The one at the top. Okay. Got it.

00:49 That was first. Um, so then I went down to try a night before committing long-term show me plans and that's where I am now. Yeah. Um, so I guess I do kind of understand the premise of each of the different packages. Um, again, this is for the client. This is not for the host. Yes. Yep. Yep. So see, just two cycles in a year, 12, 180 6, 7 6, 6, 7 2 a sec. Okay. So it looks like it's 1 99 a month, 1 66 a month. Okay. So then I guess right off the top, when I'm looking at each of these packages under basic where it says 1 49 plus $99 refundable deposit. Um, so I guess if I were the user, my first question would be, why is that offered for this package and not for the others? Um, and then, you know, why is this deposit being refunded for the basic package?

02:13 Yeah. I can talk a little bit about that. So the purpose of that would be, um, to have that deposit and case with it being the least expensive plan, or I guess like the least risk, um, on the guests then having that $99 refundable deposit just in case any damages or, uh, things that were to happen on, uh, when they were at a space that would be to cover that. And the reason it's on the basic and rather than the Preme and not on the premium or VIP is because it's that lower price. So there's not much you absorb

02:49 The cost with the 2 99 package or the other. Okay. Got it. Um, and then we'll see trial nights could be used at the same location. So I guess that's kind of confusing to me. The first line trial nights can be used at the same location. Um, so like the, no, what does that, what does that mean? So

03:17 That would be, um, like, no, you wouldn't be able to use multiple trial nights at the same location. Does that make more sense or

03:26 Do you want to okay, so yeah, why? I don't know why someone, I guess the premise behind someone trying to trial night for more than one night is like, well, I kind of made me, I came in late and I got a crashed. Right. I wanted to sleep, but I didn't really like feel out the place. I don't know the neighborhood yet, so I need another night to how to get acclimated.

03:45 Yeah. And now yep. And that was actually a question I'd I wanted to ask you because we wanted to have that as an option, but we also want to hear from your perspective as a host of like, what would something change as if you were asked to allow for more Tron lights, like, let's say two trial nights or three trial nights. I know we talked about covering the cleaning fee before. Would that work for like, uh, allowing to trial nights?

04:11 Yeah, I think no more than two. Cause I don't know why if somebody has three trial nights and at that point they've had a whole weekend. It's not really a trial night at all. They just stay at that point. Um, so, and I guess, you know what I would think, let's just say if I was a user and I had a trial night and I did one of these packages, I walk into someplace and I'm like, this is not for me. Right. I need to get out of here. I don't like this place. I'm not comfortable. Um, I wanna check out. So I guess it's like, what, what is the process? And again, you don't have to explain it to me. I'm just saying, my thought would be, what is the causes? If I don't like the place, what do I do? Where do I go? How do I book something else?

04:55 Yeah. You're saying from the guest perspective. Yeah.

04:59 Cause it's like, okay, I don't like it, but now what? Yeah. Yeah. Um, and then guaranteed response time. I think I was looking at the bid package and I saw, you know, the six hours during business hours, I guess. I just feel like it's six hours realistic enough for you to get in touch with the whole step for them to respond back.

05:27 Yeah. Which could be, yeah, I understand. It will be yes or no. You don't know people's travel schedule where you know where they are a lot of hosts. I imagine this is not their apartment. So they may not be, you know, quick to communicate. Maybe they're traveling, whatever. Um, so I say maybe give yourself a buffer of like eight hours. So you have like a full day, like nine to five us. And then I imagine you guys would try, like you did with me getting in touch via text, phone or email. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I didn't appreciate that. People would want a response back quickly, especially if they're kind of in limbo, not knowing.

06:03 Yeah. And it's good to hear that from, from your perspective too, of that might not even be like six hours may not be super realistic, but yeah. It's sort of like balancing of wanting to have that guaranteed response time, but then also wanting to be not, or wanting, wanting it to be possible and realistic.

06:22 Um, and then number of trial nights. So there's the number of trial nights? Is that talking about again, like we will referring to the top with the maximum, at each location or cause like I was confused when I look over it and it says six and then in parentheses between everyone.

06:43 Yeah. So did did the number, I guess, what was your interpretation of the basic and premium plan if I could ask before I, yeah.

06:51 So the number of child nights for me would say that if I checked into some place or maybe okay. Mainly I would interpret that as the number of trial nights I could have in a month, the pockets that I am apart of. So if I'm part of the basic, then I could add to, and again, this says 1 49, so I'm not sure if that was at one point on the end, you're saying per year and then over here, I don't know if it's a monthly. Yeah.

07:22 So yeah, The idea would be, so the basic and premium would be one-time payments. So it would be a one-time payment and then you'd get either two for the basic or three for the premium plan trial nights. And then, um, for the VIP, that would be a per year, almost like a, like a membership or subscription. Uh, and that would be six trial nights between each booking. So you'd get that plan. You have six trial nights to sort of find a place or find somewhere, um, that works for you. Then let's say you book that place for a couple of months. And then after that you'd get six more trial nights to try different places. So in-between each booking, you'd get, um, six additional trial nights.

08:12 Then between Each booking you get six, so six trial nights at one location or six trial nights total.

08:20 So, Um, it would have some flexibility in that sense. So like that top row that we were talking about earlier, uh, it says yes, up to three nights. So that would mean that you could spend up to three trial nights at a specific location. Once again, this is all just like we're discerning, trying to figure out what would work for hosting guests. So I know you mentioned two would probably be your max, uh, your maximum of what you would allow, but how we have it set up here is, um, that you could use up to three trial nights at one location. So if you had six, could theoretically do like three at one place, one at another two at another, if that makes sense, like you could split them up in a way where if you wanted to try a place, um, for more time or for more nights you could, and then you could also try like six different places for one night,

09:14 Six different places for one night. Okay. And then, so what is the significance of the, between every book? Okay. Um, like why, why is that?

09:21 Yeah. Um, so this would be, it's really just to like to have like the VIP or like the ultimate package to, for if you have, um, if you want like that maximum amount or the, the farthest end of wanting to be able to try places, maybe you live far away. Uh, so you want to come in and try a place for like three nights as opposed to like, if you live in like Florida or something trying one night might not be necessarily what's best for you. So then having, let's say, if you do have, um, the money to get that plan, having that flexibility there for if that would be interesting. So it's sort of just having like that high end option for people that would be interested in that.

10:09 Got it. Okay. And then let's see, free cancellation across the board almost you could meet. So host, you could meet is basically like the amount of different places you could be at, right? Correct. So how is a trial like, so if I look at the number of trial nights and the host you could meet, how are those different on the cause? It looks like for basic, it seems pretty explanatory, right? Trial nights at two different places, same with premium three trial night, three different places. But then I guess I didn't understand the six into, in relation to the, up to 10 hope your mass is 10 different places that you could have trial nights for, but your trial nights could only be for up to 6, 9, 6.

11:00 Yeah. And me, even myself looking at this now, um, yeah, it's not very good. And some of

11:06 It seems redundant like the trial nights use that same location and number of trial is kind of almost the same concept. So that's a little confusing. And then number of trial nights to host, you could meet would be a little bit of redundant. Yeah.

11:24 Cause the idea is, cause they're all sort of similar. The idea we're trying to say is you have this many and then each one has like sort of varying flexibility in like the basic plan. You can only do one trial night. You couldn't do both trial nights at the same place. So I do see what you're saying though. It sort of looks redundant and the they're all covering, like they're almost like all sort of getting at the same concept, but yeah, they all have like their separate spots too. But yeah, we can probably find a better way to get the point across of this is the amount of trial nights. And this is the flexibility that you have with each one

12:03 In the morning. Maybe that's what, And maybe I think that to me communicated better, here's your trial nights and here's your flexibility. And you know, it's like, you know, um, flexible terms or whatever, or perks, perks, and then you put under the perks, what it is that they're getting. So I could be able to differentiate between basic premium and VIP at this point. The only thing I see that's the biggest difference or the basic to the premium to the BIP is going to be, um, the deposit, the amount of trial nights I get. And that's basically, and then by, you know, a little bit price incrementally, um, and like, you know, only if I could get, if I could do the, and here's the other thing what's to stop people from doing 1 49, the basic, uh, continuously, as opposed to the VIP that breaks down to 1 66 a month.

13:06 So We had this, might've been in a previous version we had, um, on there somewhere that it was a, one-time like a one-time deal. The basic plan would be. Um, but yeah, I hear one time

13:19 Came in, which includes two free one night trials. Yeah. I hear your, I hear what you're saying though, of being able to get that multiple times and then right. Cause I would say that I'm just going to keep doing the one-time payment and you know,

13:34 It's different than say one time or introductory, right. Because it seems like your basic is something introductory for someone who hasn't tried this it's new to them. So maybe it's like introductory where you're saying, you can only do this one time. Once you try it

13:49 Doing it continuously

13:51 Is I would just say, oh, I'll do my safe bed. It's one shot. I don't know what I'm going to get. I don't want to commit to $2,000 a year. So I'll just keep doing 1 49 repetitively.

14:03 Yep. I hear that for sure. Yeah.

14:05 Um, and then let's see, then the next one is negotiate booking after trial night, adding more nights can lower price per night. I didn't want to expend that. Am I openly? The guests can negotiate after the trial night.

14:20 So store that negotiate booking after trial night. Yeah. The premium pockets that shows the only the guests can negotiate after the trial night.

14:35 I, so what you're saying is that the guests negotiates with the host about what they want to pay.

14:44 Yes. That'd be right. Yeah. So there should probably be some sort of, um, and I think we talked about this on the call that there should be some sort of like max min, because that may not work in favor of the guest. If the owner AE has high demand, they can't be bothered. So like yeah, the guests could ideally negotiate the deal, but the host may not want to take that deal. So, you know, I think that statement tries to make it seem as if the guest is in control, but really it's the hotel it's going to say, yes, I'm going to accept that or I'm not. So I guess, you know, maybe that line item could just be a check as well. Like, you know, just like you did on free cancellation, that line item could be like check, check. Yes. You can negotiate after your trial night. I just, I think it's kind of, I think you have to be careful when you kind of make it seem as if the guest is in control of being yes. They can negotiate all they want, but the host may not be able to accept it and then you get that right. Then you get that disconnect and it could cause I aggrivations.

15:53 Yeah. And you talked about the, um, the min-max I think we may have mentioned it last time, but what about, what would you think about like a 10%? Um, like the maximum?

16:01 I said a lot of times, even when I did my numbers on what I would be comfortable with, I did like a 10% and then I think it was like 15%. Okay.

16:12 Yeah. And then another question I'd have sort of related to that. Is, would you, like if you were hosting these trial nights, would you always prefer the ability to, um, to negotiate after? Or would there be, I guess, would there be times when you, um, would prefer like not, not having the ability to negotiate for yourself or for the guest or would you always like that flexible it'll depend

16:38 On the week and it'll depend on the demand, right? Like where I live right now, um, furnished housing is in super high demand. So like what my max men would have been at the beginning of the year. I think it changes on a monthly basis, especially now that we're in summer, but you know, summers a high season and then you have the fall, which also becomes busy because now we have students going back to school, so availability is lower. So I think that the maximum thing, um, could maybe be a suggested or a typical, like what the average maximum is, but you can't really put that in. Like, I wouldn't want to put that in quote on quote writing or say that that's because I have, for example, a friend of mine actually this weekend, she was in Miami for work. And she said that her Airbnb canceled on her right.

17:34 Last minute, she makes their Airbnb, the post didn't respond to her after she paid, didn't tell her anything. And so now she's stuck with no Airbnb, but she goes online and starts looking for Airbnbs and could find any people were asking like anywhere from 300 to $30,000 a night. Right. And so she said that she found out that the reason the demand was so high because that's not typical for Airbnb, but the demand was high because there were like three music festivals in Miami. This weekend, thousands of people went to Miami. So owners were having that flexibility to say, okay, demand is higher, I'm changing the price. And I think I kind of agree with that because it's not fair that let's say my number said, okay, I'll accept between 50 and a hundred bucks, a hundred on the high side, 50 on the low side, depending on week season, et cetera, then something like this extraordinary event happens like years ago, we had the super bowl, super bowl changes everything, right? Because it's not fair that I would rent my place for a hundred dollars. But then hotels are now asking for $500 and stopping with $100 number when an out of the ordinary extraordinary events has occurred that has made the interchange by number. I think maybe you say suggested or average as opposed to saying what it is black.

19:00 Yeah. Because that's going to depend on, like you said, the demand and even just like what's going on. Yeah. What's

19:06 In the inventory at that point. Could you, Could you give me a sense of, I know you mentioned like around now and probably the summer months, I'd assume and fall being like your busier times are higher demand. Are there time, could you give me a sense of like when those higher demand times are, and maybe when the lower demand our demand times are for you? Yeah. So

19:26 I would say, and now again, this is just for me personally, in the urban market of New Jersey, New York, um, you know, higher is definitely summer. Um, you know, and I'm going to take into consideration COVID because I think we're still going to be in this a little bit longer. Um, be, you know, I think that it really told a little bit of the pulse, even though people weren't traveling, I was still kind of busy. So like definitely from may. So I would say end of October is a busy season for me because of summer and students returning and work and all that, the holidays are generally quiet. People don't tend to travel much unless they're going maybe international or maybe they're coming to visit New York and they want to stay at my place.

20:18 I was kind of like a one-off. I don't think people drive as much during the holidays as like say I do. And if they did, they probably stay with family and friends and not be looking for please independently. Um, and then, so I would say that that's a low season up until probably like going from beginning of November, till February, March would be my low season. Whether it's crappy here, it's cold, it's rainy, blah, blah, blah. Yeah. So, um, so I would say that that would be the low and then April starts picking up again or spring breaks for people traveling Easter break, et cetera. It starts to sort

20:54 Of get back into summer. Yeah. And then are you primarily with, um, your places now? Are you primarily doing like longer term like leases or short term rentals you're doing,

21:08 I'm doing longer term. I actually took my place off of Airbnb because I was well, two things. And this is important for you guys to know too. So the municipality in which I live in, even though I have a private house with different apartments and it's my building with no management, the city of Jersey city particularly has started this new kind of crackdown where they have an independent company that goes on Airbnb and goes on Craigslist to see if they're finding short term rentals. And I actually got a call from the municipality saying you can't range your place for less than 29 days because we put an ordinance in place. You can't do an Airbnb.

21:50 Right. I could fight that all day because of the holiday would tell me I'm a homeowner, but I think it was because they were getting a New Jersey, particularly has done this for a lot of different properties, but they're not allowing Airbnb or short-term for less than 20, 29 days because it was causing problems in communities and neighborhoods, parties, et cetera.

22:15 Um, so like my minimum right now is 29 days because that is the cutoff for, you know, the municipality. But for me, if I had like a one-off where somebody was staying, you know, short-term overnight, whatever, as long as I'm not advertising it on Craigslist or Airbnb and doing it through a private, uh, outlet, like you guys, then I wouldn't have a problem because I have the right to have somebody stay in my apartment. One-off as long as the municipality doesn't feel like I am advertising that consistently.

22:49 Yeah, it does. And so like right now, and obviously for me, for cleaning for accountability, it's easier for me to do 30 day leases minimum. I've done one-offs for people if needed. Cause I understand people get our clients. Yeah.

23:05 Got it. I understand. Um, was there anything else on the table or the page that you wanted to bring up or had any questions there?

23:16 I think the last thing that I'll say is that this last line item, the number of simultaneous negotiations on the bottom where it says like, great for those who've never used this lease before, before I would move that to the top, I would bring that right underneath basic premium and VIP, because it tells you right off the top, what kind of, where do I send it? And it, and for that information, which I think is important for it to be all the way on the bottom will be missed. Got it. I think people will be more confused if they all this and then get to that as opposed to that being on the top and then the rest of it coming out.

23:51 I understand. Yeah. And that makes sense of wanting to know, like in, in layman's terms, I guess, of who am I? Where am I

23:57 Am? Yeah. Which one is for me? Sure. Yeah.

24:02 Um, okay. I guess I have a couple of questions for you. Um, one of them would be, what is your cleaning fee now or what are you? Uh, a hundred dollars for cleaning. Okay. Um, and then another question, um, in terms of like deciding what, uh, or when, or who you'd allow for a trial night, is there specific information that would be interesting to you in like helping you better make that decision? If that makes sense, like of the guest or what they're looking for?

24:36 Um, yeah, I guess for me, you know, I think when I ever everybody who's ever stayed in my apartment, I always asked them immediately, like, what are you, what are you coming here for? What are your intentions? Because if they are coming for work more than likely, they're going to want to be a certain distance from where that work is. Right. So it's kind of like, what is the purpose of your trip? What are you looking to do? Cause like, if you want to go to New York city and you don't have a car and you want to stay somewhere close within public transportation, that's safe. My place is perfect for you.

25:10 I will stay only with kids. Maybe you have a small pack and you know, you need a place to stay because the hotel is not going to allow you, my place would suit you.

25:19 But if you're saying I have, you know, I want to be like, I had somebody that day say I'm working in Staten island. Is your place appropriate? Now place is 40 minutes away. And then they even asked me like, oh, how far is it during traffic? Okay. I can't predict traffic. So I don't know how far it is traffic. Right. I can tell you how far it is based on GPS. That's all I know. Um, so I guess just understanding also the occupancy I've had people who said to me, there's three of us. We want to be roommates. We're okay with sharing a room. And I'm like, this is inappropriate for you. My place is not big enough. My place is a one bedroom and a den, two people backs, but I can't accommodate three, unless one is a child.

26:02 And keep in mind that now you lose the living room den area because you've now used that as a bedroom bedroom. So I generally like to know like the occupancy people's intentions for visiting and then how long their term is. Because like, for example, some people said I'm coming on a work contract. I might need to extend, hang you extend. And that way I can be upfront with them. Cause I wouldn't want somebody to be comfortable in my place for two months. And then you got to go on a scavenger hunt trying to find someplace else to stay. Yeah.

26:30 Do you want to find having that information allows you to like make sure, cause it's honestly, it's better

26:36 Vision for them as well. Right. To see if it works for both of us and I'm not like canceling for them at somewhere

26:41 Because honestly it sounds at the end of the day, if it doesn't work for them, even if it might work for you in the long run, it probably isn't the best option for you.

26:51 Yeah. That makes sense. So really I guess just information about what they're coming, what they're coming for and maybe like who with, and yeah. Really just details on, on their travel.

27:02 Got it. Um, So I know you mentioned, uh, you're currently doing, um, stays 29 days or longer. Um, so, and that's, so I guess it, it would something like a split lease guest looking for, um, recurring part of the week. Would that be something that you'd be willing to take on? Um, in terms of like, so we we've sort of talked to hosts, who've done similar things as you now in hosting, just a sort of longer term 29 plus days. And we've talked about potentially like grouping multiple split, leased guests of like one person may be looking for a week, uh, weekdays and then another person looking for weeknights over these longer durations and potentially being able to like, um, uh, combine those complimentary guests to, uh, have your space use towards, uh, like a more fuller capacity. Is that, uh, something that you would be interested in or would you be interested in just like a repeat traveler for four nights a week?

28:09 For me personally, I would be, I would prefer one for one traveler or, you know, a traveler, um, consistently not different because then I have to be being on top of, cause for me every time somebody leaves my place, I'm now doing inventory and I'm doing cleaning. So it's not realistic for my time for me to like, mid-week go run, make sure apartment gets turned over and do the, uh, do the inventory and then come back and get it ready for somebody for the weekend. I personally wouldn't have enough time. So people do cause this is all they do. This is their business. This is not my business. Sure.

28:45 Yeah. Could you, I guess you touched on it a little bit, I'd be curious about like what that process looks like between, um, people staying there. You said inventory, I understand the cleaning. Could you talk a little bit more about that and like what that looks like? Yeah.

29:00 Yeah. So I have kind of like a book, um, when people check in everything from detailing, you know, the, um, the, anything in the apartment, the stuff in the building, you know, laundry room, access passwords, et cetera. And then I do have a detailed inventory lists everything from co SIM plates to, you know, comforters and sheets and all that good stuff. Yeah. So, you know, they didn't get that at the beginning. So they're aware because my apartment is fully equipped. Right. So you could just come in with your luggage, you don't mean anything. Um, and then, so I made sure that they're aware when they move in everything that the apartment has. And then I use that checklist. They leave to verify that nothing has been broken or damaged.

29:45 Yep. Got it. And that's Yeah. That's, That's good to know. Um, let me look here. I think we've covered just about everything. Um, I think so. Yeah. As long as there's no more questions for me or anything else about the page or anything. Um, yeah, I really appreciate your time and you doing this, would I be able to, uh, reach back out to maybe later if we make some updates to this page and, um, hear your feedback again, your perspective,

30:22 Or I will tell you just so you know that usually I charge people for my time on this. So

30:25 I got a very nice response on

30:29 This because I do do focus groups and I do, I am an influencer, so I generally get paid for my time on people feedback, but happy to help.

30:38 Yeah. I totally understand. Yeah. Once again, I appreciate it. Thank you for your time and for your perspective, this is going to be really helpful. So I appreciate it.

30:49 Thank you. Yeah, you too. And we'll see you later. Shantelle,

30:52 take care. Yep. Bye. Bye.

---

KEY BEHAVIORAL OBSERVATIONS:
- JERSEY CITY HOST - Urban market, NJ/NY area
- One bedroom + den apartment - FULLY EQUIPPED
- Currently doing 29+ DAY MINIMUM due to Jersey City ordinance
- Municipality CRACKDOWN on short-term rentals (<29 days)
- Took listing OFF Airbnb due to regulations
- Open to private bookings through Split Lease (not public advertising)
- $100 CLEANING FEE
- PREFERS SINGLE REPEAT TRAVELER over multiple guests
- Doesn't have time for mid-week turnovers (not full-time host)
- Detailed INVENTORY CHECKLIST process between guests
- HIGH SEASON: May through end of October (summer + students)
- LOW SEASON: November through February/March
- Max occupancy: 2 people (unless one is a child)
- TRIAL NIGHT FEEDBACK: Maximum 2 nights, not 3
- NEGOTIATION PREFERENCE: 10-15% max discount flexibility
- Dynamic pricing preference: Suggested/average not fixed
- Response time feedback: 8 hours more realistic than 6
- Product feedback: Pricing table redundant, needs clarification
- Recommendation: Move "who is this for" description to TOP of pricing
- Recommendation: Make basic plan "introductory" one-time only
- IS AN INFLUENCER - typically charges for focus group time
- Wants to know: Guest purpose, occupancy, trip duration, extension possibility
