HOST CALL TRANSCRIPT: CRISTINA
Date: [From original data]
Duration: ~8 minutes
Agent: Bryant
Host Type: Time-Poor Delegator (PERFECT CO-HOST CANDIDATE)

---

0:13 Christiana. This is Brian. I know how I am. Yes, of course. Good morning. Hope you're doing well. Um, meats used to, I already yelled at Chris.

0:23 Chris. It's no, my boyfriend for almost five years. He's really fantastic. You know, he doesn't answer the phone. I can answer the phone, but he is not a person be rely.

0:37 Unfortunately. I mean, I, as you see me, my reason was on Airbnb because now I got it. I've been doing this for a while and was greedy, meaning like she wants that kind of Lonnie is a pain dynamic.

0:51 You know what I mean? So, uh, I shouldn't be helping him, but I am, but let me tell you, yeah, I, uh, recently list on Airbnb also, but it has nothing to do with that because he wants to say, oh, has there been any hits?

1:07 And he has done nothing, but I did download the app, not here on my phone, but I downloaded it on my iPad, but it is so slow.

1:18 It's very hard to navigate. And it's not very, because I told him to read because as you see, I'm a foreigner and for him to understand that, of course he didn't and then explained to me, so how do we get paid?

1:34 Because I don't see it, how we go. Um, where do you put? And then there is a, something about a bed also.

1:41 What is your, Um, so the bid refers actually to, uh, like the guest side and the guests would make a bid on, um, the space, if they're interested in this, in this case, uh, like I'm working with Dustin directly.

1:55 So it would work a bit different, The big refer, like that hurt me. And you, like, you had it when you were, when we leave behind and I should have done a long time ago and I didn't do it because, you know, my apartment's small, Chris is a partner is big.

2:10 He's a hoarder as you see, but it's huge for New York. And, um, and he's not there, you know, at the ranch it's, um, it's a lot of money.

2:20 Yeah. Yeah. And in terms of this situation, in terms of payments are typically what we, uh, what we usually do is, is you sell, um, we can be flexible on payment.

2:31 We've, we've used other things before, but typically we'll use Zelle and payment will work where, um, for each individual stay.

2:39 So I sent you the dates that Dustin was interested in. Um, and for example, for each of those individual stays, you would receive the payment, um, For the month, either after three days or after the, um, the first night of that stay.

2:55 So Dustin's is a bit unique just because it's part of the, um, part of the month, each month and the dates aren't necessarily consistent.

3:04 Um, so with his, uh, it would likely be to receive payment for the month. Um, like you mentioned like three days after that initial stay of the month.

3:14 So there were, there stays Tell me, because you know, I'm on the phone where you wrote it, tell me the dates, then I'll write in the paper and how, okay.

3:22 Uh, so, so April 4th to the 14th May 1st to second, Just a Night, I believe just one night, I'll confirm on that.

3:37 Um, if there, I believe he was saying like, just the first that night, um, but I'll, I'll confirm with her.

3:44 Um, and then May 18th to the 27th, Hold on 18 to the 27 day. Uh, then May 31st to June 1st. Yes, My birthday.

3:56 I can see a party on there. Uh, and then the last one was June 8th to the 30th. Yeah. I mean, it's, the guy is nice and kosher, you know, I don't see why not and where, you know him and what is, how do you guys get like referral stuff?

4:14 Because, you know, I don't have also a memoir because I have such a hectic job for me. You know, I've been doing Airbnb for such a long time and I don't remember things.

4:23 I don't remember if his deposit isn't I, you know, Yeah. So we're in the PA in the process with, um, he's like going through our vetting process right now.

4:32 And that's something we do with also all of our, all guests staying with us and staying in booking through split lease, go through our vetting process and their will get, um, verified, um, employment, woes, uh, verify as income or, uh, get proof of income.

4:48 We will get landlord references, a credit check, um, verification of ID. Uh, so that's, we're in the process of that now.

4:56 Um, but specifically, Dustin, just to tell you a little bit about, little bit about him, he's familiar. He used to live in New York city, but moved out.

5:03 Uh, I think it was two years ago, or it may have been around when the pandemic had started. Um, but he lives in Connecticut now, but still works in New York city.

5:12 And essentially he's just, um, they're kind of on like a hybrid work schedule where he would need to be in the city, all the dates that he's listed as basically when he'll be in the city for work, um, and really just needs, uh, no, I believe he is.

5:29 Um, I believe he is older. I don't have his exact age, but I can, Uh, that I don't know either, but, um, I'll be getting like his LinkedIn and those things.

5:40 I'd be happy to share those with you. Yep. All right. Um, if you want, I don't have a LinkedIn, but I used to be in the fashion thing.

5:49 You can look at it as Christian or drawers, you know, the club, I don't know what you have there because you were in what think again?

5:59 Uh, so I'm actually in Michigan, but They don't have that. Yes, yes, yes. Okay. If he asked, uh, yeah. And how would it be?

6:12 Would it be by day if I want, He would pay, um, he would pay nightly pricing for the nights that he's there.

6:21 And then that would once again be set, um, by either between you, you and Chris, or whoever would set the price.

6:29 And I have an estimate of like what he'd be looking to spend and what his budget would be. Um, and again, because this situation's kind of unique, it may be something where, um, we try to like find, find something that would work or find something that would, um, like work for you guys and still could work for Dustin.

6:48 Yeah. I mean, a ballpark of how many days, if you can do like, count for me, this has to be like sooner than later, because on the 11th, I'm going on vacation for about 11 to the day 11 to the 20, what is that?

7:06 Do? 27. Okay. So, and, uh, so he needs to do with like, you know, kind of like, Okay. Yeah. I'll, I'll definitely be, um, the routine There, but you know, it'd be an April four, there's plenty of time for me to clean and do the apartment help him, but, you know, just, you know, because then I'll, I'll just block the dates on.

7:27 Uh, okay. Yeah. And when I did, I did a count and depending on like, when we, when we talked about May 1st, a second, depending on whether I've, I counted that as one night, I'll follow up with him and make sure that's the case, but I counted it out and it turned out to be 43 nights in total.

7:44 Um, but again, like I'll, I'll reach out to Dustin and just confirm that, uh, confirm the dates And I'll let you know and get that information.

7:55 And then, yeah, we'll be in touch Kind of way. I like about her, you know, just wait because I don't have the time.

8:01 And you know, if you can't do the work for me. Yeah. I understand. Yeah. That's, that's my job. So that's what I'm here for.

8:07 I'm happy to do it. So I'll keep you updated. And um, if you have any questions or anything like that, uh, always feel free to text me.

8:13 Yeah. Sounds good. Thanks so much Christiana. I have a grocer day. All right. Thank you so much. Love take care.

---

KEY BEHAVIORAL OBSERVATIONS:
- CRITICAL QUOTE: "I like about her, you know, just wait because I don't have the time. And you know, if you can't do the work for me."
- Extreme time scarcity ("I have such a hectic job for me")
- Platform confusion ("it is so slow...very hard to navigate")
- Couldn't figure out payment ("how do we get paid?")
- Airbnb fatigue ("pain dynamic")
- Needs verbal explanation, writes on paper
- Non-native English speaker
- Managing boyfriend's apartment
- **PERFECT CO-HOST CANDIDATE - literally asking for full service**
