HOST CALL TRANSCRIPT: DANA
Date: [From original data]
Duration: ~7 minutes
Agent: Bryant
Host Type: Flight Attendant / Travel Nurse Host

---

00:01 Can you hear me better now? Okay.

00:05 So, um, I have the apartment rent that's April's first. And as you know, um, if you wanna tell me more about what you needed, what's going on.

00:14 Yeah. So I was reaching out to you. So I was talking with a, um, uh, the guest who was named, let me just find it, pull it up here. Um, yeah. So Allen Allen was looking for a place basically from Monday to Thursday each week. I, and he was interested in your listing. Um, I'm not sure if it'll end up working out. I know Alan is looking for something, um, starting like within the next month or so. Um, so you said April 1st, was that right?

00:53 Yeah. Okay. Yeah, no worries. I did just want to reach out and, um, let you know, and, and that's good to know. I can always, uh, sort of reach back around that time and it may be something where, um, I, I can talk further with Alan, but he would still be interested even, uh, at that point.

01:19 I'll let you be my lifting walk over the tournament style building gets renovated, but

01:27 Got it. And then I don't have it, it maybe on the listing as well, but, uh, parking is that Yeah, this garage was around, but Got it. Okay. Um, yeah. And everything else. Yep. Like you said, it should be able to get from, uh, the listing here. Um,

01:49 Okay. And is the, so this space. Okay, so it's a room. So do you also live in the space? Okay,

02:03 Got it. Got it. Okay.

02:10 Okay. Yeah. Great. I'll be able to any information he, for the most part, he w he said he was interested in, I hadn't asked too many questions, uh, about the space itself, but, uh, like you mentioned, uh, no, he hasn't asked. He, he basically, yeah, he, he just showed interest in this space and, um, hadn't really asked him any questions beyond that.

02:38 I think, um, I do not know the exact type of work. I know that's his reason for wanting the space is to be in, in Manhattan. Um, I know that's where he works. I don't know what he does exactly, but he was looking just to be for the, uh, the workweek that Monday to Thursday, like I mentioned.

02:58 Okay. Good to know. Okay. Got it. So you said, uh, just one more time, April 1st is when it's rented to. Okay. Um, got it.

03:08 Uh, okay. Would I be able to send you, um, some more information, um, about, so I'm actually, I work with a company, uh, or work for a company called split lease and we help basically these types of, uh, multi locals and guests who are looking for repeat part of the week, stays why be able to, uh, follow up, follow up with you and send some information in the link

03:34 Catered to travel nursing. And I never, ever, ever had to advertise, because what about all the travelers want to stay there? Because for them, it was ideal. I can't get travel nurses because they're getting hotels with their car.

03:52 Yeah. I'll say like a, a lot of the, so work with them on a different hosts and guests. And many of the guests that I see now are a lot of like similar situations to Allen, like hybrid workers who are looking for part of the,

04:07 I'm going to tell her to tell you the truth since the pandemic I've had other people, not, I have never, ever, ever had a problem with the travelers. They're clean. They they're responsible. There's no questions asked they're there to get all these tenants I've just had, I've been nightmares.

04:30 I had a guy was really sweet guy cooking fish in my house two times again. That's that's and I asked him so politely, I mean, please don't, you know, you know how hard it gets dish out of your house.

04:46 Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. I will say, yeah. So, and another thing I'll mention too is with the, so all of the guests that I work with and that we work with, it was split. At least this is their secondary address. So it's something where they have another place and are just looking for,

05:02 Because I met this guy that was cooking there's twice a day. He was a computer guy working at home. I will never do that again. Never. Yeah. Just, just too much.

05:11 Yeah. Yeah. I hear you. Yeah. Got it. Um, okay. I'm glad we were able to talk. I think I have, yeah. It's, it's good to know that all that information is in the listing as well.

05:24 April 1st you said is when it will become Which listing or you list with a bunch of different people, which last begin you looking at,

05:33 I came across it on furnished finder. It's called the furnished room with private roof garden. Got it.

05:41 Um, okay. Think, did you have any more questions for me at this time?

05:44 Well, that's fine. I mean, yeah, if you find me a travel nurse, I'll give you a piggyback, you know?

05:49 Great. Um, okay, great. Yeah. You can, uh, feel free to reach out. Uh, if you have any other questions or anything like that,

05:56 Now I'm a flight attendant and my parents accidentally burnt down their house a month ago. So I raced out there, you know, to help them. I basically out, back and forth to their house with them all the time. And now I have to go to work tonight. I won't be back towards the Sunday. So forgive me if you know, I'm just a little bit.

06:18 No worries. Yeah, yeah. No, no worries. Definitely. Yeah. You have more pressing things to, uh, to take care of right now. So yeah, no worries. No worries about that.

06:26 Um, whenever, whenever you can, and you can always feel free, whether it's next week or in a couple of months, if you have any questions or anything like that, you can always feel free to reach out and I'll share some information with you as well.

06:41 Uh, but yeah. Thanks for taking the time. I'm glad we were able to talk.

06:46 No, sorry. I totally stay. So they're calling you because they imagine my parents are 80. All the people that helping them with the fire because they can't get ahold of them. All my folders and blown up nonstop.

06:59 No, no worries. No worries. I'm glad we were able to talk.

07:02 All right. You have a, you have a good rest of your day and good luck with everything that you got going on.

07:07 We'll see you.

---

KEY BEHAVIORAL OBSERVATIONS:
- IS A FLIGHT ATTENDANT - works nights, travels a lot
- Furnished room with PRIVATE ROOF GARDEN
- Available April 1st (currently rented)
- Loved travel nurses - "never had a problem" - clean, responsible
- Since pandemic has had nightmare tenants
- BAD EXPERIENCE: Guy cooking fish twice a day, working from home
- "I will never do that again" - WFH full-time tenants
- Prefers secondary address guests
- Dealing with family emergency (parents' house burnt down)
- Parents are 80 years old
- Very busy, phone "blown up nonstop"
- Listed on Furnished Finder
- Would give finder's fee for travel nurse placement
- Garage parking nearby
