HOST CALL TRANSCRIPT: DAVID
Date: 21 September 2022
Duration: ~5 minutes
Agent: Robert
Host Type: Brooklyn Room Renter (Quick Onboarding)

---

00:10 Your call has been forwarded to an automatic voice message system 9 1 7 5 4 4 1 4 1 3 is not available at the tone, please record your message. When you have finished recording, you may hang up or press one for more options.

00:29 Hey David, this Robert, we chatted with you and at least, uh, and, uh, on over the phone, we agreed for the phone call at nine o'clock. I guess I will try one more time. Thank you.

01:03 Hello. Good morning.

01:04 Hey, good morning, David. How are you?

01:07 Hi, I'm doing okay.

01:09 Hey, good, good to meet you. This is Robert. We agreed to talk about your apartment.

01:15 Uh, you responded to my, uh, a, that I'm looking for the place and that particular ad was asking for the place in Chelsea, not in Brooklyn. However, uh, I work for the company called split lease and we have clients, uh, which are looking in multiple places, including the Brooklyn as well.

01:43 So I was wondering if you would be willing to try our service and list on our site so I can present to, to my other clients and see if they would be interested in your place.

01:50 Uh, we don't charge anything. The host, the only thing you would need to do is, uh, I believe you sent me some pictures. You sent me some description. Maybe you want to make that description a little more, uh, elaborate, uh, your full name, phone number. I have an email address. That's all I need.

02:16 After that. We can create your listing presented to our people. If they like it, I'll get them in touch with you. And we will go from there. How's that sounds again, there is not no charge for you whatsoever at any time.

02:33 Okay. That's not a problem.

02:35 Okay. So if that is the case, could you please send me that, like I said, I need your full name. I need your email address phone I have, and a little better, maybe a little better description of the place. And, and if you have more pictures, Susan, send me more pictures.

02:56 All right. Not a problem, but it's, um, it's a room for,

03:01 Yeah, I understand what we do, David, just to bring you a little bit more up to speed. What we do with service clientele, which comes, uh, frequently is the place. So it's people usually who, uh, want to rent part of the week, but they are rent and part of the week for a number of weeks.

03:22 So usually it's like, for example, somebody, somebody needs Monday through Friday, but, uh, they come back for like 3, 4, 5 months every week. And at the end of the day, I understand that you have the price in mind. You want to charge for that place.

03:44 So if we can get you the same price for four days instead of seven days, it just better for you. You have less invasive roommate, let's say. And, uh, if, uh, later on we will find a matching room made for you. Who can take the other nights, you'll just make more money.

04:10 So, okay. So if, uh, if that is the case, could you just text me now, at least your full name and email address? I will get you started on our website so you could see what it is and we'll go from there.

04:25 Okay. And what's the website name?

04:27 The website is, uh, uh, split lease. You can, you can type in Google search, split lease, and it will be the first one coming up or you can type www dot split. That lease is either way you'll get to us.

04:49 Okay.

04:51 But, uh, if you give me email, I'll send you all the information. You'll be able to see the links. I'll send you my LinkedIn profile. I'll send you all kind of information so you can feel comfortable working with us.

05:06 All right, then.

05:07 Okay. So all right. Text me that stuff. And we'll go from there. Hopefully will make some money together.

05:15 All right.

05:16 Okay. Thanks. Nice to meet you. I'll waiting for your text.

05:20 Talk To you. Bye bye.

05:27 Yeah.

---

KEY BEHAVIORAL OBSERVATIONS:
- Room in BROOKLYN (responded to Chelsea ad)
- Quick, easy conversation - no objections
- Already sent pictures and description
- Will send more detailed description
- No charge concern - understood immediately
- Agreed to text full name and email
- Open to part-week rentals for better rate
- Short call - efficient onboarding
- Initially missed scheduled call (9am) - voicemail left
