HOST CALL TRANSCRIPT: DEEDRA
Date: 25 August 2022
Duration: ~12 minutes
Agent: Robert
Host Type: Co-op Subletter (Needs Building Approval)

---

00:00 Okay. So somebody else leaves you live in another room that is that correct statement.

00:05 There is another room, but again, I work in long island during the week and I'm here every other weekend, maybe every weekend as a beginning, but basically every other weekend. So that's why I prefer a weekday, you know, week scape rentals. Um, so when I come home on the weekend, I kind of have the place to myself.

00:34 Okay. That's that's wonderful. Uh, so, uh, how much I'm watching as your place?

00:43 So for, I had put 19, uh, for the extra long, but 3000 or the place while I'm gone.

00:55 Uh, I guess I'm, I'm more interested in Justin, one room, not the whole place. So,

01:00 uh, let me, let me explain you what, uh, I'm trying to do. And we'll go from there.

01:08 I worked for company, which called split lists and we usually service, uh, commuters who come to the CTA for work days. Um, uh, they need the part time and also exactly what you are trying to achieve.

01:27 And right now we have too much demand and not enough supply. So we started contacting people on other sites, seeing if they would be interested to work with us.

01:39 So if, uh, a U O K was that I would be happy to create your listing on our site and present it to my customers. See if they like it and go from there.

01:55 We don't charge you innocent. All our compensation comes from the guest, not for, not for the host. So whatever host says cost wants to receive that cost will receive.

02:09 Uh, also we do offer to the hosts, a payment guarantee because we are responsible to collect the payment we guarantee the payment would be made to.

02:27 So, and we assign actual supplemental with, we create the lease between you and the guests, but we'll also create a supplemental agreement where we, as a company guarantee you the payment and we also match is a safety deposit.

02:46 So if there's a damage and you had whatever safety deposits you require, let's say $200. We'll mention as to if there is a damage more than what you asked for. Uh, so, uh, if that sounds reasonable to you, I would be happy to move forward. I'm creates a listing for you and see if we can get you the right person.

03:11 Okay. Well, I question is when these commuters are looking for places, are they looking for, um, five days a week? Is it three days? Two days,

03:27 Because there are different people. There are people who looks for, for two days so that people could look for, uh, see days for four days, five is more, uh, rare because actually we are talking, not dates and days, but nights. So people usually come in Monday, they need Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday. So Thursday night and Friday mornings, they say, just leave. So four nights is most common, but, uh, all kinds of combinations.

04:02 Okay. My other question is, would I ideally it was, he, I would find it okay. To, um, rent out both places, but do you think two different people would be okay till habitating or would that,

04:24 Yeah, we do it quite often, but, uh, it would be two independent contacts because, uh, sometimes we do the one joint lease where two people sign it as, uh, roommates. But, uh, uh, in that case, like for example, somebody lives in one of them, somebody is another and say, have a joint lease agreement. However, the challenge with that is to get the exact start date and exact duration of the lease because different people need a little bit different arrangements. So we can, we can get you two independent leases go that we can do no problem, but, uh, it would be independent.

05:21 Right. Um, all right. I need to think that through too, if that's really what I want.

05:26 So go ahead and sign.

05:31 How bout this in order for you to make a proper consideration, you need to have all the information. So if I could get your email address, I will send, use the simple, so linked to our side samples of the lease agreements we use and everything else. So you can see how it's look like, and then you can decide if you want to move forward or not.

05:56 Okay. All right. Um, I just would like to get as much, obviously as I could. I know, um, the, uh, studios are going from 1,901 bedrooms or somewhere around 27, 28, and then two bedrooms for 3000 is like, not really heard of on the FRP side.

06:22 So one of the agreement and then just we'll figure something out Again, the price would be because we're going, we're going to do individual rooms. So whatever pill room you'd want to charge that what you will tell me, you want to chat.

06:49 Okay, perfect. And how quickly can this happen? Reasonable timeline?

06:59 Uh, usually it happens within a couple of weeks, but, uh, sometimes, uh, it might be a little longer, a little short. Sometimes people saying I need it tomorrow. Sometimes people saying, I need to start for X date because this type of arrangement is not something rich people trying to do, uh, right away. They, they prepare. But as the same talking, I do have a number of people who is on a waiting list right now, the question is, would they like your apartment location and the price?

07:43 Because, uh, when I presented to them, we will see what is going to be because at the end of the day, uh, of course you can put any prices, whatever you like and set what we will advertise. But at the end of the day, if it would be cost prohibitive, people will not do that.

08:10 Okay. All right. That's reasonable. Um, I, so I do want to let you know this, uh, my place I went to them, it's a co-op building and the owner will never be here, but he gives me a yearly lease and I've been here for cheaters. Um, so typically I think I'm not supposed to sublease, but since the pandemic, when they went to the manager, the manager, not the head person who runs it, she said, look, just get a roommate and just don't say anything.

09:01 Um, and one of the owners, he's kinda like a display tenant, um, when I had someone who knew the summer, like he about it. Um, but I, you know, I'm wondering, should I just tell him a little more, just to make sure he's okay with it?

09:15 I would say, uh, that is something you need to decide for yourself because I cannot tell, I don't know those of that particular building. So I don't, I cannot advise you on that. The only thing I'm saying is you will be liable to tell us that you're allowed to present this police, basically, when you are saying yes, I want to do it. You are telling us yes, I can do it. I have guides for them.

09:50 Okay. Got it. So, yeah, I'll, I'll find out what I can do because I work in long islands. I just don't want the apartments sit here.

10:03 And I, I do want to make this happen as quickly as possible. Cause I have a couple of people who are doing short term internships. One wants it from the 28th through December 28th, and then there's another percent. Um, so I kinda need to make a decision. I would prefer to have weekdays too, so I can have, but you know, they're going to want it seventies.

10:27 I'd Prefer to have weekdays so I can come in. Cause I do healing work too. So I've been sort of me renting a place. I'd rather use my place. You know, I do my other work.

10:35 Well, like I said, let's do one step at a time. Well, let me send you that information. So you can see what's happening.

10:51 Also. You might choose to shows up to the owners. If you decide that you need to do that, you will have some sync, which will show them what has happened.

11:11 So, uh, and just, I'm just trying to give you the tools to make educated decision and then it will be up to you.

11:20 I thank you so much. So what is your email address? So we can start with, Yeah, one kicked me. I texted a kid here that might, That would be good. So as soon as you text me, I'll send it back email. You will decide if you decide that you want to move forward, you text me back.

11:41 Okay. Perfect. Thank you. Thank You. Nice meeting you.

11:45 Nice meeting you too.

11:47 Bye-bye.

---

KEY BEHAVIORAL OBSERVATIONS:
- WORKS IN LONG ISLAND during week, home every other weekend
- Has TWO ROOMS available
- Pricing: $1,900 for one room, $3,000 for whole place
- CO-OP BUILDING - technically not supposed to sublease
- Manager advised to "just get a roommate and don't say anything" during pandemic
- Some building owners know she's had people staying
- Needs to decide if she should get formal approval
- Does "healing work" on side - wants to use apartment for that
- Has short-term intern inquiries (28th through Dec 28th)
- Prefers weekday rentals so weekends free
- Understands split roommate concept for both rooms
- Timeline: usually within couple weeks
