HOST CALL TRANSCRIPT: DIANE KAUFHOLD
Date: 17 August 2022
Duration: ~17 minutes
Agent: Robert
Host Type: Experienced Property Manager / Multi-Property Owner

---

00:31 Hello, we're finally talking and you believe I am busy. I actually was stopped.

00:45 Um, a million tags. I know you have a crazy schedule too.

00:49 It's unbelievable. You know, the day is never long enough to do the new Exactly. You knows a feeling

00:58 Knowing that you have somebody coming to your business for,

01:03 Okay, let me, uh, go ahead and explain you what we are doing. Basically, I work for the company called split lists and we, uh, servicing commuters and, uh, other people who need the frequent login in the same place. So commuters is mostly presented live group.

01:27 And as a very presented live group would be divorced. Parents who need to come back to the same place to see the kids and they need the stable place. So they can bring that kid in the same environment over and over.

01:45 So was this type of people are looking for signings the leases for, uh, the, usually between C and six months. And, uh, it's a part of the week.

02:00 And, uh, it was the way we, uh, services as people were doing the two ways way. Number one is we, uh, matching the computer with the host who lives on the property. So this is a employee is a place is available only part time.

02:17 And who, I mentioned two people who one needs a food, let's say somebody needed, man. This was Thursday. The host wants to have a [Inaudible]. So then they matched and we are doing as a lease agreement, uh, all laws, uh, uh, necessary documents.

02:37 And there were some goals Maggie way, a nicer way. We do it. Eve's a landlord who wants to zip up to full time. We made two people with complimentary schedules. Let's say one needs to be Monday. So source day another Friday. So Sunday, those two people are signing a lease agreement as roommates, and they just take turns of using the place and when the

03:12 Landlord gets a full time rent. So it was a situation right now with us as such that we have huge demand and not enough inventory on our site. So we started to eat out on other sites, uh, Tues, uh, landlords and coasts, uh, to see if somebody has opened place and you responded to one of those ads. So that's where, where, so if you have a place where, which is available part-time, or if it's available, full-time, uh, I would be interested to work with you.

03:55 Uh, it was the way we operate. Uh, we create the listing on our site, uh, and then send that to our guests, even if say, like it was at least, um, we allow for the zoom meeting between coast and guests, if it was, um, we create a lease agreement, uh, and, uh, I will be happy to send you the least the sample or the least we're using it like a template or this labels have to be adjusted to your particular case, but you will see how it works.

04:36 Yeah. Yeah. And, uh, also we, it was the whole store landlord. We have the secondary agreement, which we call supplemental. And that is where we, if the first one is agreement between guests and hosts and we adjust, it was a facilitator who helps to create it. The second day supplemental agreement is between us and the host and the agreement where we go and to the host two sings, we guarantee that we will collect the payment and pay you. So you don't have to worry about collecting the payment from the guests. It would be coming from us and all the second guarantee, which we give where mentions a damage deposit.

05:28 So if, for example, you have a $500 damage deposit, and all of a sudden, God for beads, Samsung captains, and the damage exceeds the $500, we will match for the same amount. So you will have, instead of $500 here will have a thousand dollars.

05:57 Okay. When you're looking to, I'm looking to the right now, the demand I have is, uh, uh, meaning law. Uh, me, the lower Manhattan is, uh, uh, Brooklyn and, uh, uh, opera side, basically Annison, which is, uh, on the level of car lemon law.

06:23 So, okay. So I would have different options too, because I have an apartment in Manhattan and I have two buildings in Queens. Um, there's, you know, this COVID made the mess black. I had pretty good people, steady, um, some moved out, um, didn't pay a few more months. Then they straighten out a little bit and stay in power and time again. So I would have options. Is it, is it that it has to be, eh, I can work with, I can work with all of your options basically, and you can tell

07:01 The divorce. So they have to see, they come into New York. They come from out of state to me. So see the kids

07:17 Sometimes, sometimes yes, you will be surprised. Come when you, how many people who get divorced Zen, let's say, as they go from New York and live in Connecticut and the Zane have to come in and she's a kids find this lady in New York, because though it was a kids, especially who, uh, uh, under age, they are not allowed to take them out of city just by, well, some, some are not allowed out of city.

08:00 Wow.

08:00 All kinds of judgments. I was, uh, when judge says your visitation rights is this, and they describe what kind of arrangements it has to be. I had the divorce death who is, I believe, graduated with excellent income and everything is good. Just family didn't work out. And he had to, and he lived in connected and he came down to see his five-year-old daughter. And so in order to see five-year-old daughter, because she was a different gender, he had to have a two bedroom.

08:47 Yeah.

08:47 So, uh, all kinds of scenarios, but at the end of the day, and nobody does it blindly, we all was collecting information about our guests and we share most information with hosts. The only thing we do not share is direct contact information. We do not share phones. We do not share email addresses or any other way. So when people cannot communicate except so our site, so you can send all kinds of text messages. So our side, but you cannot communicate directly until everybody agreed. And Lisa signed.

09:36 So when Lisa signed as a host, we collect the first month mom's payment and the damage deposit.

09:48 Oh. So I don't need them first to see if I think, And you meet them via zoom, not just via zoom. So, uh,

10:03 Yeah. Okay. I texted it to it's. Okay. I texted it to you and you send me your site and everything.

10:07 Yeah. I will send you some. Yeah. I will send you all information. Zen, you can respond to me. Uh, two ways. I will also create your account on site. Insightful sent to use a temporary password so you can get in and change it and use your account.

10:32 And then you will have two options. Option. Number one, you just create your own listing. You go in and you just create one to see how many listings, how many places you have. You're welcome to create multiple listings,

10:51 uh, option. Number two, you tell me here's the pictures or here's the link I'm already listing it somewhere. Let's say on that BNB on any other site, whatever you give us link to that listing. We take that information from that site for you, create your listings, send you back links to your listings, and then you go in and you give you if you like everything, you're saying, God blessed. And Zed goes in front of the, uh, people who are interested.

11:28 We do not charge your opinion from you. Also, all our income comes from markup to the guests. So if you do this and NASA hairpins, all you lose is the time you spent of communicating with me. Ocreate in list. If something does happen, you will receive the amount of money. You said you want to receive for that place. And the, if it is a full time, we will ask you how much per months, if it is week over week, we will

11:51 Rule

11:52 No Zoe seaways we, uh, purchasing it. It can be a fun time. So if somebody is a host says, I'm allowing it to be rented. Full-time and Zanesville say, per months, I want to have that much. Or some people, some calls say, I want to be, uh, like every as a week, one week I'm using it myself and other week, the guest, you got guys like zap.

12:29 Zen was saying, how much per week, if somebody says, I want only every week, but Monday service, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Suez day. Then we will say, okay, how much per day you would want. If you have person four nights, how much per day you will, if you will have so many nights and how much per day, if you will have two nights and, and Zen, you have ability to serve it that way.

13:02 And if, if somebody comes in and says, and I will give you an example, somebody comes in and says, I wanted four nights. And you said for four nights, I want 50 bucks a night. So he pays you 200 bucks for four a week and somebody else might come in and say, I do all my sleep. So then he will decide if I will do 60 bucks a night. That will be hung at 80 only. But I am going to have only seen nights, not all four nights, somebody there, you see what I'm saying?

13:49 So it's, it's all up to you because you as the one who is going to set this numbers, so you might say, I want 50 bucks for four nights. I want 50 bucks for a way, be 70 bucks for C nights. And then it's two, 10 or four, four for two nights. I want the kangaroo box and Zen it's the same to Congo. You see what I'm saying?

14:20 Yeah, sure, sure. I just, I just did all of that for years. I sold two co-ops on 54th and 52nd. I sold the boat six months before Coleman. Yeah, I did that. One was a three-bedroom one was a two bedroom and I lent it out only nightly to UN diplomats and they kids. And so visiting, coming back then I did it for 15 years, so I I'm familiar,

14:51 but that thing, um, uh, so Now I always rented it from this to now. They have everything, they leave it practically like hotels, you know, Your ass. I don't mind if they, they sign three months, they signed six months that I didn't care.

15:11 And Yeah, we are talking about foremost. We're talking about fully furnished. We're not talking about empty. It's all [Inaudible] fully furnished.

15:35 So, uh, was that kid said, can you text me that, know your email address?

15:41 And uh, just, Uh, Yeah, just the, also the proper spelling of your first and last name. So I don't make mistakes because, because I will use that to create your account. And I don't want to make a mess.

15:59 Well, you can, I don't mind give it to you, but let me read you a written first. You don't have to stop. You start the council. Anyway, if I want to, I want to read to the whole website.

16:09 Yeah. Basically, if I stuck, that is all it is. It's says you can log in and claim it because there was no, until you come in and use it [Inaudible] happens is that the site knows your name, your phone number and your email address. That's it? Nothing else is on the site because you will come in.

16:38 What should I look for? What's the name of it?

16:40 Uh, is there a site is split least, but let me email you all the links you need to to see. So instead of you searching for it, you will just get everything. So I am located in Troy, Michigan, but it doesn't really matter because it's the same as you will ask where it'll be [Inaudible] so what,

17:13 Okay, let me here. Okay. I'm going to send you everything. Nice talking to you.

17:19 Yeah. Nice talking to you too. And you'll get it today.

17:25 Yeah. Thank you.

17:27 Yeah. Okay. Thanks Robert. Text you later.

17:28 Bye-bye.

---

KEY BEHAVIORAL OBSERVATIONS:
- MULTI-PROPERTY OWNER: Apartment in Manhattan + TWO BUILDINGS in Queens
- VERY EXPERIENCED: Rented nightly to UN diplomats for 15 years
- Previously owned 2 co-ops on 54th and 52nd (sold 6 months before COVID)
- COVID caused issues - some tenants moved out, others didn't pay for months
- Understands guest clientele (commuters, divorced parents)
- All furnished properties
- Used to nightly rentals - "like hotels"
- Flexible on 3-6 month terms
- Has existing listings on other sites (can pull info from there)
- Very busy schedule ("day is never long enough")
- Will create own listings OR provide links for team to pull
- Open to multiple listing options
