HOST CALL TRANSCRIPT: DIMITRI
Date: [From original data]
Duration: ~6 minutes
Agent: Bryant
Host Type: Hands-On Verifier

---

0:04 Hello? Is this Dimitri? Yes. Hi, Good. How are you doing? Very, very good. Thanks for calling me back actually. So I'm just wanting to make sure.

0:15 So this is, um, this is for the summertime, correct? Yes. I saw that. That was, um, in the posted, just to confirm is the start of July until the end of September, Like at the summertime and maybe have to look at somebody I can even do the three whole months.

0:33 I will be in Europe, actually for work. So officially I'm leaving, uh, on, uh, the 1st of July. Uh, I could possibly do a sub-lease agreement until October 1st, but I just wanted to clarify, this is not like a roommate situation.

0:50 So like, I, I wouldn't be sharing, like, after I came back on October 1st, I wouldn't, I wouldn't be sharing the apartment with anybody.

0:56 Yeah. Yep. Understood. Okay. All right. Cause uh, okay. Yeah. Then not the positive rework. So these are your roommates right now.

1:05 Are they the ones who would be simply? So I actually worked for a company called split lease and we matched Ariel and Amber as roommates.

1:14 So they both came to us individually looking for a space in like the lower Manhattan Midtown area. Um, we matched them as roommates, uh, and that's why I'm reaching out to yeah.

1:25 To see if this is and just to confirm this is in, I know. So it would be available, you said from July to September, potentially October, Even like after March, but the problem is that like I've worked remotely from Florida.

1:38 So tenants that I have in there right now, she's in until March 7th. So I keep like extending with tenants, you know, like, I mean, we haven't been called back for work yet the months that I'm definitely getting, so I'm leaving a little April and may open parts.

1:53 The joke is, I don't know what's going to happen with the pandemic, but the months that I'm definitely going to be out are July, August until September 15th.

2:01 But I think I can work on, um, getting into like October 1st. Yeah. Uh, just to give you an idea, I mean, Hudson yards, uh, I'm on 30th street between eighth and ninth avenues.

2:12 Okay. This is a large coat, the size up in one bedroom. So basically I've been there eight years, but the, the tenant, uh, before they brought down the walls.

2:21 So it's like, it has a, it's literally the size of my bedroom. Okay. Where's the laundry in the building. Okay.

2:28 Got It. Uh, yeah. Uh, so, uh, I would, they want to like come and see the apartment or, Uh, potentially that would be, uh, something that could be interesting.

2:39 What I can do is, um, like share, share the photos with them and, um, have them see the space. Uh, and to your point with the, um, like when the place would be available, I know Ariel and Amber, they both mentioned to me that they have flexibility, flexibility in terms of when they could start.

2:57 So in the case that maybe you'd be interested in earlier, like I think, um, like later spring, early summer would really be ideal.

3:06 Um, but this is like July to September something that could work as well. So in the case that you would be interested in starting earlier?

3:13 Um, A couple of days earlier. Okay. Okay. Yeah, I'm flexible there. And also I just standard  and I send them mine and then just standard sublease agreement.

3:27 I I'm sure it's going to be under both of their names. I don't know. So, um, so split lease the company that I'm with and where, uh, Ariel and Amber met, we have a custom rental agreement.

3:41 Um, and with that, so there's the customer until agreement, which is between yourself and the guests. And then there's an agreement, um, sort of like a supplemental agreement between split lease and us, the landlord, and that agreement is where payments are guaranteed to you.

3:56 And I'd be happy to share those with you. Um, Uh, okay. Well, yeah, obviously, well, I've never usually dealt directly with my tenant and they do a sublease agreement.

4:06 Sure. So we would have to, I don't know, logistically first of all, because I'm going to be starting department, other people as well.

4:14 See if they're just trying to get back to me as soon as possible. Um, I do one month deposit first month, and then obviously the first of every month the rent is due.

4:24 Um, but, um, yeah, so let me know, uh, as soon as possible, and I can arrange, uh, with the current tenant, uh, to either show them the apartment personally, they're New York.

4:34 I'm not sure if they are New York or, um, uh, do a video to, or whatever, whatever works for them. That that would be great.

4:40 And if I could get your email, I'll send you over some information and then, um, I obviously have your number so I can, uh, text you with updates on Ariel and Amber as well.

4:49 And if you have questions for me, you can always feel free to text or No. Yeah. I have one more question because I usually don't deal with third parties.

4:56 We'd rather deal with one person directly your company, but still have their information, their driver's license, because you never know, I wouldn't be on the safe side.

5:07 And you know, like obviously yeah, you understand that as far as utilities, uh, uh, so do, these are not included, but like they can just, uh, uh, basically adjust whatever they want, uh, with cable and internet.

5:20 Cause I'm not sure if the one cabling, but what the internet, that's why I include them so they can just build their own package with spectrum.

5:26 Okay. Yeah. So that would be separate from the rent not included in the run that's right. Correct. But like, I usually usually the, the heat, uh, as our conditioning, uh, summer, so that shouldn't be more than 80, $80 a month unless they abused AC uh, uh, a standard, uh, cable.

5:48 Okay. Yeah. That's very good to know if I can just get your email, like I mentioned, I can follow up and, um, I texted to you cause it's long.

5:56 So the, that you, uh, this is your cell phone, I'm going to text it to you. So yeah, exactly. That would be great.

6:04 Thanks Dimitri. And if you have any other questions, feel free to text me or email me as well. Let me know.

6:10 Uh, I ideally I want to like take care of things within, uh, next week or next week. So let me know what they think like, okay, Sounds good.

6:19 Thank you.

---

KEY BEHAVIORAL OBSERVATIONS:
- Seeks verification ("driver's license, because you never know")
- Concerned about third-party involvement ("I usually don't deal with third parties")
- Time sensitive ("within next week")
- Traditional sublease mental model
- Needs dual assurance (platform + personal verification)
- Hands-on approach despite delegation needs
