HOST CALL TRANSCRIPT: DREW
Date: [From original data]
Duration: ~6 minutes
Agent: Bryant
Host Type: Chelsea 1BR Owner / Flexible Host

---

00:06 Hello? Hello. Hey, is this Drew? I ain't going to be talking to you. Thanks for taking the time to chat. How you doing?

00:18 I'm doing well. How are you? I'm good.

00:21 Good. Um, yeah, so like I had mentioned a shared Ariel and Amber and their LinkedIn's with you, and they're both interested in your space. I wanted to, um, chat a little about your space and then maybe ask you some questions. And if you had any questions for me, I'd be happy to answer those things,

00:40 Um, which I've got potluck. Exactly. You think it was be too much?

00:45 Uh, the title of it is the comfortable one bed, one bath.

00:49 One bedroom, one bath. Yep.

00:52 Yep. In Chelsea. Yep. Yep. To confirm that would be a 2000 a month, I think is what it's listed here. That's right. Okay.

01:03 Got it. And this is an entire apartment, is that right?

01:08 They had found one bedroom, one bath.

01:14 Okay. Got it. Um, and then is the space available now going to be available?

01:25 Okay. Do you know when this,

01:32 So Ariel and Amber are both flexible? Um, they're actually both, uh, if I can tell you a little bit about them, they're both in similar situations. So both of them have primary residences in Connecticut, uh, but they both work in Manhattan, which is why they're looking for a place. So essentially they'd be using this space as a place to come back to, uh, after work for when they're in the city. And then, um, there are other time will be spent, uh, at their primary residences in Connecticut.

02:02 Um, so they have, they have flexibility like right now they're currently just commuting to the city so they can really start, have a lot of flexibility when they could start. Um, I think ideally they want to start early March is what they had, let me know. But again, that's something that they can be flexible with.

02:22 Yeah.

02:27 Uh, do you have an idea of when the space. Okay, got it. Okay.

02:33 And um, so

02:41 Okay. The sixth. Okay. Got it. And then I'm guessing you have, um, is there maybe cleaning or things that need to happen after that, after that a tenant moves out? Is that right? Yeah. Okay.

02:57 Cleaning. Okay. Um, another question I had would be, uh, regarding security deposit or damage deposit. Is that something you charge? Uh, do you have a damage deposit? 1000. Okay. Got it. Um,

03:17 Got it. Uh, and I wanted to mention as well, so I know I mentioned Ariel and Amber and they were, so they originally came to me and the company that I worked for, which is called split lease individually, I, we match them as roommates. Uh, and a lot of the guests that we help are in similar situations to Ariel and Amber basically needing a place in the city for, um, when they're in the city for work and basically to come back to.

03:44 Uh, so basically we, uh, split lease doubled the deposit, um, and guarantees payments to you as the landlord. Uh, so that's all within our rental agreement, which I'd be happy to share with you. Um, but basically in the case that a guest would miss a payment, uh, that doesn't have any effect on you and you still receive, uh, the payment, uh, as well as we've vetted, both Ariel and Amber had been vetted and have, um, verified employment and income with us as well.

04:18 Okay. Okay. Okay. Alright.

04:21 Uh, one more question I had was about, uh, pictures of the space and wondered if you had any more, um, that you could share with me or maybe like a video tour or something like that.

04:38 Yes. I have more pictures and I can send you

04:46 Awesome. Yeah, that would be great. Um, okay. I think that was, Um, so yes, if you can text me your email address, I will send you pictures.

05:01 Sounds good. I'll do that. And then I can get back to you with more information on split lease as well as links to the, to the agreements which are referenced. Um, and I think those about it, any other questions for me major?

05:18 Uh, Uh, so they've indicated, ideally they'd want to start with a four months is what they indicated to me. Is that something that would work yep.

05:32 Four months and then maybe the ability to extend. Okay. Okay. Sounds good.

05:38 I'll be sure to get back to you with, uh, with more details as well. And if you have any questions for me, you can feel free to text me or email me on. I'll share my email right after this call. Alright.

05:50 Sounds good. Anything else for me? Drew

05:52 Sounds good. Okay. No, that'll be all. Doug and moving data. And though, let me just send you pictures and, um, did you do a, so we can maybe move on?

06:14 Yeah, that would be great. I'll send over my email so you will see.

---

KEY BEHAVIORAL OBSERVATIONS:
- CHELSEA location - 1BR/1BA apartment
- $2,000/month rent
- $1,000 security deposit
- Current tenant moves out on the 6th
- Cleaning needed after tenant moves
- Has MORE PICTURES to share
- Open to VIDEO TOUR
- 4 months minimum - with ability to extend
- Flexible, accommodating host
- Will send additional photos
- Quick, efficient call
- Ready to proceed with guests
