HOST CALL TRANSCRIPT: GALE GRANT
Date: 17 August 2022
Duration: ~19 minutes
Agent: Robert
Host Type: Privacy-Focused Host / Good Layout

---

00:17 Morgan Gale Hawaii.

00:25 Good Morning.

00:26 Good morning. How are you doing

00:32 good to be good community. Yeah.

00:37 Uh, I'm looking on your ad here. I'm trying to understand, uh, uh, you're saying that, uh, the space which is available is a living space. So it's not a bedroom or what, how was that working?

00:55 I sort of turned my living space into a studio because it's, um, it's the size of a studio.

01:06 Uh, I understand that, but does that mean, does it mean that My own bedroom, You have your own bedroom? So I use it all the time or you go on Monday so Friday because that's, it means that you walk in so that living space.

01:24 No, no, no, no, absolutely not. The apartment is set up. Um, it, it's a very interesting design there. Two doors on the bedroom. So, um, one goes to the entrance to the apartment and the other goes to the bathroom. Um, the living space has a separate door to go directly to the bathroom and it could get to the, uh, dining area and the kitchen without crossing into, um, anybody else's space. So it's, It's like five that really,

02:06 Um, uh, I see that you, uh, talking of your phone, so maybe you could show me if you inside of your apartment house, it works.

02:19 Yeah. I mean, how do you know? I, I've never done this on my phone. How do I turn this around?

02:26 Only on your phones or his camera? If you touch the camera, it will flip or just turn the phone, uh, on the, uh, the face to the door.

02:43 Yeah, I see, I see that. So what is that separate door? It's just the meeting space.

02:51 Okay. Yeah,

02:59 I was just sitting there, so there's a table and chairs. Okay.

03:05 Um, this table can be moved to another area so that the couch folds out. Okay.

03:14 All right. Um, So this door can be closed and you can go to your space. So you're not This close is, so this is now the dining area goes right to the kitchen. So you see how this area is private, because then it goes to the front door.

03:40 Okay. So, uh, the person, Yeah. So th the store closes.

03:47 Okay. So, uh, So let me go back and show you how this works. Okay. So this living area, right? There's a door right here, Right.

04:04 And this door, that's why I said the bedroom has two doors.

04:08 I see. I see. So basically the person who is occupying live in a can close the two doors, one to the bathroom and one to the kitchen. Is that correct?

04:22 Exactly. I'm not home a lot because I do a lot of things. So I mean, I, I had people living here where I base it. We don't even see each other, you know, unless we make an effort To Do that.

04:45 Yeah. That's wonderful. Okay. Uh, that's looks like possible solution.

04:50 Uh, let me give you a little, uh, introduction of myself. And, uh, uh, we will talk about, uh, for the possible continuation.

05:04 I work for company, which is called Splitly and we service people who usually, uh, need the LDP to stay in the CTA, usually commuters, stuff like that. So it was the guys who come in to work Monday, so Friday, and then go home for weekends.

05:24 And we have the second group of people when somebody needed to be on weekends. And, uh, the two ways we are services, people who was the first way we measured them with the host, like you, who will just learn directly Monday. So find them, let's say in your case and

05:47 Exactly, that's what I'm looking for because I've had, I've had people here, you know, the full week and it's just, it's too much. I think this apartment is, is large. So like I said, you don't see each other, but still I think the weekends to have the weekends off are better.

06:10 Yeah. And, uh, so I'm just going to continue in general. So you understand our functionality and the second, uh, way we service people, if somebody around apartment full time, when the landlord does not live there, then we match two people with a complimentary schedule and say, sign the full-time lease with the landlord. Somebody leaves Monday. So Fridays sounded somebody's Saturday, Sunday for landlord. It becomes a full-time, it's just a general service, which we provide.

06:45 So, uh, right now we have so much demand for stays and not enough inventory. So we decided to go on as a sites, uh, Tues, uh, landlords and coasts, uh, to see if somebody has opened place and you responded to one of those ads. So that's where, where, so if you have a place where, which is available part-time, or if it's available, full-time, uh, I would be interested to work with you.

07:06 Uh, it was the way we operate. Uh, we create the listing on our site, uh, and then send that to our guests, even if say, like it was at least, um, we allow for the zoom meeting between coast and guests, if it was, um, we create a lease agreement, uh, and, uh, I will be happy to send you the least the sample or the least we're using it like a template or this labels have to be adjusted to your particular case, but you will see how it works.

07:51 Yeah. Yeah. And, uh, also we, it was the whole store landlord. We have the secondary agreement, which we call supplemental. And that is where we, if the first one is agreement between guests and hosts and we adjust, it was a facilitator who helps to create it. The second day supplemental agreement is between us and the host and the agreement where we go and to the host two sings, we guarantee that we will collect the payment and pay you. So you don't have to worry about collecting the payment from the guests. It would be coming from us and all the second guarantee, which we give where mentions a damage deposit.

08:28 So if, for example, you have a $500 damage deposit, and all of a sudden, God for beads, Samsung captains, and the damage exceeds the $500, we will match for the same amount. So you will have, instead of $500 here will have a thousand dollars.

08:57 Okay. When you're looking to, I'm looking to the right now, the demand I have is, uh, uh, meaning law. Uh, me, the lower Manhattan is, uh, uh, Brooklyn and, uh, uh, opera side, basically Annison, which is, uh, on the level of car lemon law.

09:24 Normally when I have people staying here, I asked her the first month in the last month and he has a department.

09:35 I understand, but we're working a little differently. We collect the payments. So we are responsible to give you the payment. So we collect the deposit, we collect payment every month and we pay you every month.

09:59 So also that is also done, uh, to be fair, to both sides, because in that case, we are acting as a mediator between two sides. So whoever is responsible has ability to, uh, invoke our powers to help, to help, to resolve the situation.

10:16 So, uh, if you would be interested, I will be happy to send you an email with the samples of the lease agreement sample of, uh, our supplemental agreement. We would be between you and us, where we guarantee whatever's in. You know what I just said, as far as the, uh, matrons, uh, uh, damage deposit and guarantee in the payment.

10:46 And, uh, uh, we can go from there. Uh, we are not asking you for any payments. We don't charge you. Our, uh, compensation comes from marking up. And, uh, if the, uh, guest decides the price is good, then this is a lease agreement happens. You still get the full payment. If guests decides that they don't like NASA cabins. So for you, you don't have to send me any checks ever.

11:30 We, we send money to you. You never send money to me, that Money to you.

11:15 Well, some is, uh, some sites, which says, you need to pay for advertising, or you need to pay for whatever we don't ask you to pay for the rest sides. Which saying, if you want to do the advertisements, the listing, let's say you need to pay a hundred dollars or whatever. The other sites like that, I'm just,

11:43 Oh, I don't, I don't know. I mean, cause, um, I mean I've usually just gone direct, you know, this is the first time I'm

11:51 I understand. And that's why I unexplained and use it. Some people are, oh, do I have to pay you some so, and I'm just straight forward telling you, no, you don't have to pay us any sin. If you decide that you want to try working with us, that means that we can even take the, uh, ad you have on Sparrow, takes the pictures from the, takes, the description from Zen, help you to create your listing on our side.

12:19 I will send a vice away. Do I have your email, the direct email address? Because I don't believe I do

12:27 My email. Yeah, she, she is. Oh yes I do. I sent you is the zoom zoom invitation. Nevermind.

12:37 Yeah. So I have, I have your name. I have your phone and my email, this C elements will allow me to create your account. And our site was that we will create your listing. We will send you two emails. One will come from me and it will have full explanation how we function and sample of documents we use. So you can give you at your leisure and see how we function.

13:08 And the similar documents will be created if you will participate in with us. And the second would be from a, a technical support of our site, which will provide you a link to your account and the temporary password. So you would be able to come and see your account and see your listing. If you happy, you just give me, got blessed. And it goes in front of the person I'm looking to service.

13:43 That case is great. It's was a pleasure to meet you. I hope we would be able to, uh, work together because my job is customer service. So I supposed to make the life of my hosts and my guests as easy as possible. So if, if we work together or whatever, you are welcome to contact me. Anytime text is the best way to find me because I get a lot of a male. So sometimes the males get begged, but texts that will see right away. And if there is ever a question, do not hesitate to contact me.

14:27 Okay. It's great to meet here. And, uh, uh, the last question, could you give me, uh, when I create this, uh, uh, listing, I need to put the exact address. It's not going to be displayed, but for our internal records, we need to know the address. I am not asking apartment number, but street, uh, like it, because it gives a marker on the map.

14:58 Yeah. It's, it's hard and 34. It's on the corner of arch avenue and 34th street. It's seven park avenue.

15:09 Seven park. Okay, great. I can work with that.

15:15 Thank you so much. It was pleasure speaking to you.

15:21 Okay.

15:22 Bye-bye

15:22 Bye-bye.

---

KEY BEHAVIORAL OBSERVATIONS:
- UNIQUE APARTMENT LAYOUT - living space converted to studio with privacy
- Two doors on bedroom - can access bathroom and kitchen without crossing paths
- 7 Park Avenue at 34th Street - Murray Hill location
- Not home often ("I do a lot of things")
- Previous roommates - rarely saw each other
- Full-week tenants "too much" - prefers weekday-only
- Wants weekends off/to herself
- Has gone direct previously - first time using a service
- Appreciates no fees on host side
- Showed apartment via phone camera during call
- Asked for $1,800/month originally
- Negotiated down to $1,600/month ($97/usable night)
- Willing to try working with Split Lease
- Prefers text communication
