HOST CALL TRANSCRIPT: HEMEDEN
Date: 11 August 2021
Duration: ~20 minutes
Agent: Bryant (with COO on call)
Host Type: Owner-Occupant / Private Room Host

---

00:00 Yeah. So, um, are you the CEO or are you the person that I've been texting?

00:05 No, I am as a COO chief operating officer, but I also am responsible for the legal side of the business. So I was told that you had some questions about the legal consoles and, uh, any other questions you might have? I would be more than happy to answer.

00:30 Yeah. So I'm not sure if, uh, how much that he mentioned to you that the only, so right now, literally I'm, I'm not really trying to make that much extra money. Um, so I'm trying to do this part time. So I know that he mentioned that, uh, to, um, I guess, possible candidates that we're gonna rent them space for that. And then they switch up dates. So I'm not really comfortable with that. I don't really want that people were coming in and out of my house cause I, I lived there. So

01:04 I see. So would you be comfortable with one person for four nights?

01:05 Yeah. So, um, one person would be fine. Yeah. Okay.

01:10 So, uh, okay. So one person is fine for four nights. That would be, and the was particular. One said that he wanted to like, I believe three weeks. So that means that, uh, we will be on sorted nights for, would have to, uh, charge him as a sheriff occupancy taxes and, uh, basically transfers those taxes to you. So you could pay your tax obligation as it's appropriate.

01:46 Okay. I see what you mean. Um, so when you see the four nights off out of three weeks, so I guess he's not going to be there.

01:55 There's no good. He is not good. Yeah. So, you know, it's, nobody's going to do that.

02:00 Okay. Okay. And who I, how do you get, uh, you know, both of these people?

02:08 As you know, we have a website and this is a people who are looking at our website and contact us for having fun, to have us find them appropriate accommodation, which feeds both hosts and guests because, um, most of the time when we're talking about the EPA, uh, stay when people come and back and there's more, uh, negotiation items involved. So usually you, uh, negotiate between two parties and come up with the final agreement and so forth. Okay.

02:50 Okay. That sounds good. And I'm, I don't know if he mentioned office you, but, um, basically I, I don't really want anyone more than a month cause I don't want to deal with

03:01 Actually, it was a Samsung which we do about that, which might make you feel a little better. Uh, part of the agreement which our guests signed with host, uh, on our site, she has a particular section, which is, I will read it to you verbatim. So you know exactly what sign and that says actual for not a primary residence. Guests explicitly agrees that property is not intended to become his or her. I have a residence that any, and all the grievance exclude executed by host and guest facilitators. So our side and specifically exempted from the landlord tenants laws of any kind, protecting people living in violence or, or at least by others to forego any rights of a person, staying at the home of another person for a long-term basis, formal or informal to locate property immediately after the end of the term of the booking, the agreement executed by cross to the guest facilitators. So our side, so is this a Samsung, which guest explainable science, where book. So there is specific clear statements is a four go, any lights, which covers, uh, squatters.

04:44 Okay. Sounds good. So do you mind sending me that document so that I can have like a lawyer remember this?

04:53 Uh, you can even get a copy of that from our website, but I will be happy to email it to you.

04:58 Okay. Okay. Sounds good. I mean, everything wrong looks good. Um, so I guess the only thing now is, and then this, um, James Guy, when, when does he want,

05:08 Um, basically I believe that he needs to have, uh, sorry. Uh [Inaudible] if I'm not mistaken, I need to double check, but, uh, uh, also, uh, I would need you to email me how much, what is percentage texts I have to collect on the other calf because I don't know.

05:36 Well, if you are going to put, if you're going to have him on a short-term basis, less than salty nights, that's means that you would have to pay your tax. So I want, I want to make sure that the, if you have any tax obligation for the short term rental, that I pop a collected from the Guest and transfer this money to you. Okay.

06:04 So that means, you're saying that I will need to do that. Like at the end of the year, you will have to file your taxes.

06:14 Okay. Okay. So you're going to send me that as well, right? Yeah.

06:18 I'm, I'm going to send you money first year. I'm going to ask you a question. What is the tax rate you obligated to collect in your city because this is your local government, which describes how much you're supposed to collect.

06:36 I, I don't know. I'm going to have to look into that.

06:39 Yeah. So you, you can, I know that on average it's about, I believe 14% plus or minus, but your particular municipality, you need to double-check.

06:53 Yeah. So I'm going to look into that and then let you know.

06:57 And, uh, if, if it, uh, that would be more than 30 nights, Zen, that would be a mute issue. But since you don't want socialize, so it's kind of one way or another, or we go certain nights and everybody wins because you don't have to pay uncle Sam or we go less certain nights and then I have to collect the texts on your behalf. And when I pay you, I have to transfer this money to you so you can pay government. And then

07:30 Yeah, that makes sense. Um, you know, I just need, uh, all that information in writing via email. And what else was I going to ask? So, and when does he want to, I guess to start? Cause I kind of have to figure out like my dates as well.

07:49 I, if I'm not mistaken,

07:52 Hey Hamilton, this is, uh, Brian actually here as well.

07:56 Hi. Yeah, this is the person you're talking to you.

07:58 Good. How are you doing good. Uh, yeah. So I've been talking with Matthew. Um, it doesn't look like I had an exact, um, or actually I think I did, let me try to find the exact start date that he was looking for. Um, I can find it quickly here. And then like currently, are you renting out your space, um, to anyone or? Yeah,

08:23 Not right now, but um, the reason why I'm doing all this, just because my sister's moving up and then she's not moving on until like late August. Yeah.

08:32 Okay. Oh, so she's there now. And then you're looking to rent the space out when she's

08:37 Yeah, mid, mid September. I,

08:40 Okay. Um, it looks like Matthew. Oh, okay. Matthew would actually be looking to start around mid August.

08:51 Well, yeah, that might not work.

08:54 Yeah. Can you say again when your space opened up, you said late August, early September, or you said mid September

08:59 After? Yeah. I would say like, to be honest, I have to be safe. I would say like after September

09:05 After September 10th, you said? Yeah. Got it. Okay. Um,

09:12 So let's play too much mixed messages. Not the candidate.

09:18 Yeah. So, yeah, cause if your space, I'm glad I know that now after, so September 10th would be when it would be available. And then you said you'd be looking for one guest. Um, even if, I guess I know you mentioned to me like the managing of your listing, would you be able to talk about that a little bit? Just to understand just so we can understand like what that looks like for you?

09:43 Yeah. I mean, what I meant, like managing, I just don't want to deal with it multiple people that are coming in and out, you know what I mean? Even though they're on different days, um, like I given that space, like I have a nine to five, so I don't really, you know, it's just going to be too much in the bedroom, so I can't have people coming in and out. Yeah.

10:02 I understand. Better for you to have one person X and that's because you're, you're in this space as well. Yeah.

10:10 Um, let me ask you a question kind of here. Uh, what would be since we're going into the future possibilities, what would be the minimum number of nights per week? Which would you accept?

10:31 So if you have seen, can we move ahead with the Oslo?

10:39 Yeah. You may have remembered, uh, Jay, the other guests who she was looking for. Um,

10:47 Yeah, but for her, yeah, for her, the thing is they basically say she wanted what, like four month or something.

10:54 Uh, she wanted, she was looking for like around eight to 10 weeks.

10:59 Yeah. See, that's the thing like, that means that for the other remaining dates, I'm going to have to, the person that's basically like party or it would just wouldn't make sense. Like financially it's just an extended the app.

11:13 So, uh, what if she will say, if she will agree initially to go for four weeks, would you accept that?

11:21 Um, I, I can try to work with that. Yeah.

11:25 So then I guess it would be like the longer term and the shorter nights per week. You wouldn't be interested in that because there's, I guess like a larger amount of days that would go on booked in that scenario. Yeah.

11:39 Say like around night, maximum four weeks. Okay.

11:44 Okay. And the, uh, would it be fair to say that you would be to review it after those four weeks you're at a review and decide if you want to extend for another four weeks or not later on? Yeah.

12:04 Yeah. I mean, I can, you know, depending on the person you can consider that. Yeah. Okay.

12:10 And another thing that actually came up with Jade, I'm not sure if, um, I had mentioned this to you, but she was interested in potentially like one, she wanted to meet you knowing that you'd be in the space as well. And also being able to see the space first and one thing which we've, um, worked with other hosts on is potentially offering a trial night to these guests. Um, and what we've talked with with other hosts is offering to cover the cleaning fee, um, for the CA or for that trial night. So basically the person, like someone like Jade could come in, stay a night and then we would compensate you for the cleaning costs. And then from there she could decide if that's something that she'd want to move forward with or not. And before, if she was to request that trial night, she'd send like a proposal to you basically outlining her intended stay, like if the trial night went well. Does that make sense?

13:08 And yeah. Makes sense. So you're saying that you're just going to cover it, like the training costs for day at night.

13:14 Would that work for you? You know,

13:17 If you, you know, if you're willing to be like the, like the night before me, then that wouldn't be

13:23 So you would need, okay. What is your nightly fee again?

13:28 Um, right now about 70 size. Okay. Okay.

13:33 Okay. And I'm sure, like, would you, um, when you're like looking to accept guests to stay at your place, do you typically, are you typically looking to meet them first, like with you living in this space?

13:48 Um, none of it, so I just started doing this, so [Inaudible] type of, I just want to make sure that they're not crazy. Yeah.

14:01 Get a sense for yeah. Their profile. Yeah. I totally get that. Okay. Uh, great. That's good to know. I'm glad we talked to you about this and just got to know like what works for you and what you'd be looking for. And then it sounds like Matthew probably won't work just with the dates that he's looking for, but yeah. Um, I can continue to talk with Jade and see if there's something that we can figure out that would work for both.

14:29 Yeah. And then, you know, if you find any other person, well, yeah, definitely not more than a month minimum.

14:39 Yeah. Yeah. I'd be happy to come to you with any, any guests or travelers, um, that come up and yeah, I can, I have your number so I can just text you and see if it's something that would work and then also can send, um, that booking agreement to your email, um, as well as some of the details around, um, taxes and what we would need to charge in that scenario where it would be less than 30 nights.

15:05 Sounds good. And how does Akeem athletics,

15:08 Uh, was a fun as a payment works this way, we collect the payment from the guest. Uh, we holds the damage deposit and, uh, we pay you as a days, stays finished. Well, we'll pay if, if they are staying weekly, we will pay you as a, as the end of the stay up for the week

15:42 At the edge, not at the beginning.

15:43 So, uh, like in, in jades, if let's say you were to accept Jade, Jade staying Friday to Monday, um, so we'd collect the payment from Jade and then for, um, the compensation for that week would be given to you On the yeah.

16:00 On Monday of each week for the cost of that week, if that makes sense. So what you do, basically, I, so you're telling me that, um, I'll get paid after that, like her statement

16:11 After the end of, at the end of the state each week. So it would be weekly in Jade's case and she'd be staying every week. So on that,

16:20 I'm going to have to think about that. Yeah.

16:24 Well, and any sites where you go Airbnb or what their bill is, that's how the payment is made as the day you finished and Airbnb it's after like 24 hours after they get their rights.

16:46 So it's not at the end of this day, I have no problem to do, to do the same waves. That makes a difference for you.

16:55 Yeah. Because you know, it makes sense. Um, cause what is that, you know, I looked at those things and something happened that,

17:03 Okay, that's fine. We can, we can do it 24 hours after gift guest arrives.

17:08 Okay. Okay. Sounds good. So yeah, I think you've answered almost all the questions that I have, uh, send me the new meds and then I'll have a lawyer look at it and yeah. And then you tell me what [Inaudible].

17:22 Sounds good. And if you have any more questions, you have my number and always feel free to text me. All right. Thank you so much. [Inaudible]

---

KEY BEHAVIORAL OBSERVATIONS:
- OWNER-OCCUPANT - lives in the space, renting private room
- Works 9-to-5 job - doing this part-time
- NOT comfortable with multiple guests switching dates
- Prefers ONE PERSON ONLY
- MAXIMUM 4 WEEKS stay - doesn't want squatter issues
- Available after September 10th (sister currently living there)
- Nightly rate: ~$75
- Wants to MEET guests first - "make sure they're not crazy"
- Concerned about LEGAL protections - wants lawyer to review agreement
- Needs TAX INFORMATION - unclear on local occupancy tax rates (~14% average)
- Payment timing preference: 24 hours after guest arrives (like Airbnb)
- Open to TRIAL NIGHT if cleaning costs covered
- Open to 4-week trial with review for extension
- New to hosting - just started
- Interested in seeing booking agreement documentation
