HOST CALL TRANSCRIPT: JASON
Date: [From original data]
Duration: ~14 minutes
Agent: Bryant
Host Type: Battery Park City Landlord / Open to Furnished Rentals

---

00:00 Hey, this is Jason. This is Brian from Craigslist. Going to be talking with you. Thanks for taking the time to, I know this had some trouble setting this up for scheduling, so thank you. Yeah. So I'd love to learn, or just ask you a couple of questions about the space and then tell you a little bit more about Ariel and Amber and let you know, or answer any questions that maybe you had.

00:23 Um, so, uh, I actually work for a company called split lease, which is how I got connected with Ariel and Amber. They came to us individually, um, and we basically matched them as roommates, uh, and they're professionals. So they're working in, they work in lower Manhattan and we're really looking for just a space that primarily use it just to be coming back to after work.

00:46 Um, but they've both been vetted. Um, we verified employment credit, uh, in previous landlord references as well. Um, and also we guarantee the rent payment to you as the landlord. Um, so we take on the risk of, uh, from like the guest side and handling payment. Um, and I'd be happy to share, um, any of that vetting info, if you would like to have that as well. Um, but I just wanted to tell you a little bit about myself and then how, uh, Ariel and Amber as well.

01:17 Um, and then a question that I had for you about the space was regarding, um, the furnishings, the space, uh, can come furnished. Is that right? Got it. Okay. Um, and then 29, uh, or 29, 75 is the rent.

01:36 Okay. Um, and then I, was there a damage deposit?

01:42 Um, just a security deposit. New York is one of the standard in New York is one month, one month.

01:54 Okay. Uh, and also we, uh, split lease matches the deposit as well. Um, so we've matched the one month, so it'd be two months, um, which we would hold this as the deposit, which I just wanted to let you know, um, other things,

02:12 Yes, we hold the deposit. Um, and we have the agreement as well, uh, basically outlining, um, like how the deposit would be, uh, handled during the stay, as well as, uh, sort of the responsibilities. Uh, I can share it with you. There's basically everything, um, outlined within the rental agreement, uh, is there. And we have an example of rental agreement, which I can share with you. And then as well, I mentioned the guaranteed, uh, payments to you, uh, and that's covered in a supplemental agreement, um, between split lease and you as the landlord. And I'd be happy to share that with you as well.

02:51 Yes, we would hold the security deposit. Yeah. Um, one other I had, um, was about parking. If you could talk maybe a little bit about that. I know, I know it's a street parking here on Craigslist. Is it, um, I don't know. Could you give me an idea about how like parking works there and if, how available it is? I guess,

03:15 So parking battery park city, the parking is quite tough because it's not the business district. Um, so it's probably harder than most other neighborhoods in Manhattan.

03:27 Um, so street cleaning, I mean, before COVID street cleaning was Monday, Thursday, Tuesday, Friday. Um, so if you really need this pod, you could wait and talk to this recruiting on an indoor park there in the morning. It's between nine and 10:30 park over at 10, and then leave your car at 10:30 and now we can call it. It's still the only street cleaning once a week.

03:54 So once a week. Um, so it's the, it's the second day on this posted on the side. So either Thursday or Friday, um, and then in terms of, um, availability, um, sometimes at, sometimes it'll be very difficult. Like it'll take an hour if it's maybe Saturday night or something like that, but other times it could be like 10 minutes,

04:19 maybe like towards the end of the Workday is a better time to look for parking. I parked there about 10 years ago. Um, and I, I almost always parked in battery park city in the, in the Southern half of battery park city within a couple of blocks. And then once in a while, I might've had to go to the Northern half. I probably only did that a few times to try back up. I probably only like less than five times I did that

04:53 Park there. Um, every couple of days, like several times a week for years. So I was parking. Now, it might be a little bit more difficult. They may have taken away like a few of the spots that my dad parks there a lot they'll does that all the time.

05:14 And then, um, there are also some parking spots that open up, um, after the work day. So like truck loading zones through Saturday, and then there's also a school, a couple blocks out. So that opens up, um, after, after 4:00 PM. And it also is available on Saturdays or Sundays.

05:43 Yeah, that sounds, that sounds like it would, it would work then. I mean, primarily I think they'll be needing parking later in the day. Uh, so that sounds like that could actually be pretty ideal for them. So

05:54 The garage and quite expensive, there's a garage in the building. I'm sure it's going to be over $500.

06:05 Got it. Thank you. Um, if you have any questions for me, anything you wanted to ask?

06:14 What's a total income, uh, between both of them.

06:21 Um, I'd have to look that up. I don't have it handy with me right now. I know it was both, uh, both of them were making over 80,000. I know for sure. I can confirm that and send that over to, um, I just don't have that up in front of me right now.

06:38 And each of them individually was over 80,000. Yes.

06:43 Um, and then, uh, you were saying something about the term, Uh, yeah. And I know you, um, it sounded like you would be interested in something longer and, and so they're looking for something for like longterm, like potentially over one year. Um, and I think they sounded like there'd be flexible in what they'd be willing to start with. So I think probably six months is something that they could do, uh, as well with like possibility to, to extend. I think they were somewhat hesitant to committing to like a year upfront. Um, but again, I think they can be flexible and it sounded like it wasn't something that was like, um, I guess very strict for them, if that makes sense.

07:27 So I can talk with them about that, but, um, like with six months, would that be something that could work?

07:33 Um, yeah, something to consider to start.

07:42 Um, and also wondering, they're looking to move in. Again, some flexibility there, ideally I think a start of March around there.

07:55 Okay. And then, um, you're saying, uh, they're looking for a furnished place. Like yes,

08:02 They would want to know, So that, so they need to bed.

08:09 Yes. All right. So right now there's a bed in there and a futon.

08:14 Okay. And, uh, yeah, that, that might work. Yeah.

08:19 It can be flipped on, but it's not the highest quality. I can, I can let them know. And, um, yeah. And, and, and let them know about that. It could be something that could work. I know. Yeah. I'll let them know.

08:36 I'm not sure if they're considered in terms of cleanliness, like, it doesn't smell bad. We use it all the time. We don't right now, people aren't using it because there's just me staying there. But when there are more people we are using yet.

08:55 I don't realize that people come in and they're like, oh, they're like, there's like a dirt stain near or whatever it may be, but they could also, you know, get another, another bed or another type of thing to put on top of it, more comfortable. Then you don't have to move the furniture. Like there's a wooden frame frame there, which to move it in and out of the house and do the security of the building. But if you're just building the mattress that as much easier.

09:27 Mattress. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Got it. That's good to know. Thank you. Um, okay. Could I get your email, um, send over some information to you after this call?

09:43 JasongLee@gmail.com.

10:01 Okay. You said Jason.com, GLee@gmail.com. Got it. Okay. Yep. Awesome. Uh, you can expect an email from me shortly after this call. And then if you have any questions or anything like that, you can email me, text me. Um, either either works.

10:18 Um, also do, do people want to see the place?

10:22 Uh, potentially this is something that typically actually we don't, um, we don't show the place beforehand and that's usually for the privacy reasons, um, for the landlord, if it is something that you'd be willing to do, we, we have done it in the past where we'd have a guest visit the space before if they'd be interested, they haven't indicated, um, that they would want to do that. But if that'd be something that you'd be open to then, um, I can let them know.

10:50 Uh, yeah, I mean, I've been doing showing. 5% of it sounds a bit odd that they don't want to see the place before they move in.

10:59 Yeah. I mean, it's, it's something that I guess I haven't brought it up to them. They've seen the place, they've seen the pictures, um, which is where, when they indicated interest, I'll let them know that, uh, seeing the place, I guess they haven't brought it up to me yet, but it may be something that's interesting to them.

11:17 Okay. Um, yeah. And then I'll, I'll be doing, I think I'm going to do a deep cleaning after I, well, I haven't decided what I've moved the furniture out because it depends on the tenant, but I was thinking about doing a deep cleaning after moving in front of trout.

11:38 Um, I suppose that could be, if it's furnished, it will be a little bit different.

11:44 Okay. Would there still, so I get, yeah, because I think ideally Ariel and Amber would be interested in having the furniture there would there still be a cleaner?

11:52 Easier for me to leave the furniture there and have to do the security tab. And I'm about to Trump and move all the stuff out right now. There's actually too many tables. So I can just move out a couple of the tables. There's four, four tables and desks. Really need all of that.

12:14 Yeah. I'm looking at it right now. Yep. Okay. That sounds good. Um, I think that's it. Yeah. I'll be talking with both of them. Um, did you have any other questions for me? I think I, I got everything. Uh, all my questions answered on my end.

12:35 Um, just, uh, yeah, I guess let me know if they want to see it because, um, like some people might come in and think it's a little bit dirty or something like that. And they don't like it. A lot of people are like, this just sounds weird to me that they, they want to sign a lease without seeing it.

12:52 Yeah. Well I think this is I, there were, they weren't ready to sign the lease just yet. Yeah. I, I, I, to be honest, they've been there just recently saw the place they saw the place yesterday. Um, so our two days ago, sorry. Uh, so yeah, this is something I'll be talking with them. It could, they very well may be interested in seeing, seeing the place and if that's the case, um, we can, we can set that up.

13:20 Okay. And then, um, also, I mean, they're considering other places as well, right?

13:26 Yes. Yep. They're taking a look at a couple other places.

13:31 Okay. Yeah. I have, I didn't have done six total showings, but four of them were like a month ago or I had done some, a little bit of repair work in the kitchen, helping people. There were some issues with the kitchen, but I resolved most of that stuff. So recently I only did about two showings and then I had a dog, the building doesn't allow that, so.

13:59 Okay. That sounds good. Um, yeah. Thanks, Jason. Um, yeah, I'll follow up with an email shortly. And like I said, if you have questions for me, uh, text email either way, uh, anytime works. All right. Thanks a lot. Have a good rest of your weekend. All right. We'll see.

---

KEY BEHAVIORAL OBSERVATIONS:
- BATTERY PARK CITY location - 1BR apartment
- $2,975/month rent + 1 month security deposit (standard NYC)
- Can come FURNISHED - bed + futon currently
- Has 4 tables/desks (willing to remove some)
- Parking is TOUGH - street cleaning once/week post-COVID
- Building garage: $500+/month
- Deep cleaning planned before new tenant
- NO PETS - building doesn't allow
- Done 6 showings total (kitchen had issues, now fixed)
- Prefers guests SEE THE PLACE before booking
- "Sounds weird to me that they want to sign a lease without seeing it"
- Open to 6-month term to start
- Each guest making over $80,000 individually
- Ideal start: March
- Open to adjusting furniture for tenants
