HOST CALL TRANSCRIPT: JESSICA FILOMENO
Date: 13 July 2022
Duration: ~19 minutes
Agent: Robert
Host Type: Real Estate Agent / Broker Partnership Potential

---

00:09 Hello, Jessica, how are you?

00:16 Hey, how are you?

00:21 I am good. Thank you. Looking forward to have a quick discussion with you.

00:27 That would be great.

00:28 Yeah. Uh, I, uh, I worked for split lists and we usually services a clientele, which is looking for a part-time stay. And that's my usual, like a couple of days a week. And the way we operate, we match two hours, usually match two of them. And, uh, Zay, do's a full-time lease for three, four months, something like that. So I was wondering if you would be interested to practice.

01:01 Um, can you, can you repeat that one second? Hold, hold on one second. Okay. Can you repeat that? What'd you say?

01:10 I sure can, but let me ask you a question. Are you close to computer or are you somewhere?

01:16 I'm not, but I did look up split these cause I saw that on your ad said split me. So I did look it up yesterday.

01:25 So you know what split is split leases. So basically

01:29 We are shares right. Using the same space.

01:33 Yeah. The alternate uses the same space and we usually create a lease for two roommates and the landlord then for a landlord, it becomes a full-time lease.

01:47 Okay. And then do you work with management companies or is it just, um, individual landlords,

01:54 Uh, where we worked with anybody, if it makes sense. So, uh, right now, the way we operate is if we find we have, unfortunately we have right now too much demand and not enough inventory. So, so we are looking for additional help to get inventory on our side. And we, uh, open to, uh, pay guys saw that you said you require commission and that is fine. Whatever broker fee, whatever you call it, that is fine. As long as it makes sense for everybody, we are open for the partnership.

02:35 Perfect. And then when you say that, it makes sense. What are some of those requirements for everything to add up and make sense for you guys

02:42 It's means that your, uh, commissions, uh, uh, not cost prohibitive is that you're not charging so much that, uh, it doesn't make sense for the person to mark up.

03:00 No, I can. I can be reasonable. That's fine. In terms of the, uh, apartment and the conditions on the lease, are there any strict requirements with that?

03:09 No opium, mostly I'm interested in, uh, Meed and south park Manhattan and Brooklyn and new drugs close to Manhattan.

03:23 Okay. Okay. Um, so what I would like to know, um, I want to know the, for this tool, are you, so are you just looking for these, the two people that you had in the ad or

03:37 No, I'm looking for, I'm looking for all my clientele. It's just two people is just a sample. And, uh, uh, we have a lot was the way it would have to happen is we would have to get a property which is available on our site. I will present it to all clientele on wet waiting list. Whoever will work out with a particular property will be presented to landlord and the fluent lower, the poops. It goes, we do as a rental agreement on our side, we collect the payment, we pay back to landlord. So it means that I would have to, or you still collect from landlord or you collect with us. I am open for all kinds of arrangements there that doesn't really matter to me as long as it makes sense and will serve as the people who are waiting to get places.

04:37 I noticed in the message. Thank you for that. I noticed in the message that you said, um, two to three months, are all your clientele looking for two to three months?

04:48 Uh, we are doing between eight months, between eight weeks and six to eight months. That's our spot. We don't go. We don't go. And in less than eight weeks.

05:04 Okay. Cause I have, um, I have, uh, I think I have a little more inventory for six months and up. Okay. Okay, good. And then the other thing is, uh, understanding the different budgets. So would you, do you, I don't, I don't know if you're willing to share more information about the other clients, realistically, for me, I would just need to know area size of apartment and budget. I don't need to know any, I don't need to know their names.

05:35 No, no, no, no, wait, we don't operate that way. We need to do, we need to have your apartment listed on our site and we presented with the price to the clientele. So it's, uh, uh, you tell me how much you want for that apartment. And that will tell you that usually we are not looking for anything, see bedroom, uh, it is a room or a studio or one bedroom. That's what we're looking for.

06:08 Yeah, Because getting the full time for mouth, uh, even two bedroom, I would need like four people to, to get it to work and getting Zen time together becomes a little more difficult. So,

06:27 And what is the price point? Like what are the, what's the price range that you'd be looking for?

06:29 Uh, uh, it's uh, somewhere, uh, let's say, uh, I don't know, 14, 15 kangaroo, 10 months for the apartment.

06:49 Um, what was the price that you said was the budget? You said 14 to 15 times for the month,

06:56 1450 or 1500 0 14

07:01 Or 1500 per person or per apartment. Because like, let's say for example, lower he side. There's nothing available at all for 14 to 15 hundreds.

07:17 I mean, for Manhattan, it's very expensive. I could find something maybe for 2000 a studio for maybe 1900, 2000.

07:29 Um, I tell you what, why don't we place that? And that will put the particular price ones, uh, uh, on that apartment. And if, uh, our client terrible decide to take it, they will take it because a lot of people are quite desperate because they cannot find what they need. And the alternative is, uh, hotels and hotels, uh, much more expensive. So, uh, let's see, let's place a couple properties on our site and see how it will go. And if it works out, so you will add more inventory. If not, uh, you know, there was no Carmen time when

07:47 Now, how do I know? So I would lead to anything that I give you. How do I know that, you know, I don't know you, so I would need for you to sign something with me, um, a confidentiality agreement, something, because I have no way of knowing since you're not giving me any of the information of the client, I'm not getting any of that, knowing that you are shocked, renting out one of my properties.

08:42 Okay. Let's talk about this, uh, how you operate, uh, let's talk about how your parade was your, uh, owner's side. Now, if a apartment event and Samsung, uh, how do you know you prepare the agreement? What, what is, uh, what the

09:05 I usually have? So I have my client, my client will sign an agreement, uh, with me, um, basically stating that he or she is not going to share information about my apartment with other agents to he or she agrees to pay for my broker fee. Um, and then I contact the landlord, let them know I have someone interested in their apartment, do a showing, and then I stay in touch with the client, the client, um, really doesn't go through the landlord. I go through the landlord and that's how I protect myself because otherwise the client which has happened in the past, the client can then just be like, well, I don't want to really pay the fee. So I'm going to go through the landlord instead of going through you. So I talked with the landlord myself,

09:56 But how about you would be as a listing agent? So it will go so use the same way nothing will change. And, uh, the only difference is a person is a person who is going to sign for as a landlord, will receive the person who will sign when we receive money. So you will receive money, you will pay landlord or whatever, even if you will disclose landlord at the time of, uh, signing of the lease somewhere. But at the end of the, at the beginning, you will control levels. And because I don't even know, let's say no landlord listing agent, I don't care. But at the end of the day, when we will come to the signing of the lease is a lease would be our lease and we will collect money and we will do the payment.

10:54 Okay. Okay. So, and then you said also not just Manhattan, you said also Brooklyn,

10:59 Brooklyn, and New Jersey, close to booklet, two close to Manhattan. I said, uh, Queens now I don't have much clientele looking for most of my clientele at now looking for Manhattan. Some of them looking on the new drugs is, which is a commutable to Manhattan was in 30 minutes. And some of them looking on Brooklyn, also commute to Manhattan.

11:32 Exactly. So close in close distance to Manhattan as well. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Um, I have to be honest. So for the budget that they're looking for, it'll probably be easier to sign in certain areas in Brooklyn, but 14, 1500 would have to be per person. I don't see it happening unless, unless I could find a room.

11:55 Well, um, there's a button. What is going to happen is let's. If you have 2000, if you have 2200, you give me the price, which is already marked up with your fee. I don't want to know how much you marked up. You just give me a surprise, including your fees, whatever you feel reasonable that is yours. I'm not interfering with you.

12:19 Right? Well, you're saying is that one month, because it's a short-term lease that one month is too expensive. Is that what you're saying?

12:26 I'm saying that we are not collecting fees up, so we're not going to pay you a fee for one months, because if you, if you require a signing of the lease one month fee, we're not going to collect that. That was going to be against those, uh, uh, rules of our site. We can mark the apartment more expensive, and then if people take it, they take it or not take it, but we, but that would be a percentage.

12:52 So then you find how let's say the apartment is 2200 and I put, and then I want to include my feet in that. Yeah, The price of, so what does the client think? The client thinks that the apartment let's say the apartment is it's 20, let's say the apartment is 2200 and I put in the feet to make it 3,100.

13:23 Okay. You put in, you make you tell me, is that you [Inaudible]. So as a player, as a, uh, client, we'll see daily price, but client doesn't as a monthly price cloud currency, daily price.

13:40 I see. Okay. I guess we can revisit, we can revisit this. Uh,

13:47 Yeah, that's it just something to try and if it works for everybody, it works again. I'm not going to tell you that, uh, I am, I don't want to impede on your business. I want to carpet.

14:05 Yeah. Okay. I have to, I obviously have to run it by my broker, but, um, I am interested. Um, I'll see. Uh, if I can get a couple of, have your email, well actually, can you text me your email address and then, um, I'll email you what I have, um,

14:27 Basically if you can email me at least sting or information about the listing so I can create one on our site and show you how it looks like.

14:41 I did see some of them, just the listings that you have. Um,

14:49 Uh, okay, here we go.

16:29 Okay. I just sent you my email.

16:32 Yes, I got it. Thank you so much. That's perfect. And then, um, you can expect to hear from me by, um, what's today. Wednesday, you can expect to hear from me by Friday.

16:43 That's wonderful. It's uh, like I said, I have a continuous needs, so one day or two days is not going to make a difference. And, uh, Jessica, um, I have your last name. I have your phone, but I don't have your email. So if you please, oh, you're going to email me so I'll have it. Nevermind.

17:06 Yeah. I'll email you. Um, sorry.

17:13 Yeah, just, just a mail. Me, whatever email you want me to put my mail, whatever one you want me to use in our continuous, because your name, your email address and your phone is a C basis, which we are using on our site to create a user. So we will create you as a host and the, you will be able to log in and see everything inside of your listing. So in that case, nobody goes around you not asking you about contact information for the actual landlords. So you are completely protected.

17:58 Okay. All right. That sounds good, Robert, thank you. If I have any more questions, I'll probably text you or email you if that's okay.

18:07 Absolutely. The text is preferred because you can imagine how many emails I get.

18:14 Yes. I figured I figured texts. I'll text you. Okay, perfect. I have to go inside of a building right now, but I'm going to speak with you soon and I'll expect my email on Friday. Okay?

18:28 Yeah. So please start with, uh, rooms or studios or one bedrooms. The try to go on the whatever law was cost. You can go and, uh, we will go for themselves and maybe go into the higher ones because pricing things out of the market would be no, no interest to anybody.

18:54 Okay. Okay. That sounds good to me. Thank you so much, Robert. I got to go to this building, but if you have any questions, just

19:03 Yeah, You too. Thank you, Robert. Anything.

---

KEY BEHAVIORAL OBSERVATIONS:
- IS A REAL ESTATE AGENT/BROKER - has existing landlord relationships
- Works with MANAGEMENT COMPANIES and individual landlords
- Has inventory for 6+ MONTHS leases
- Market focus: Manhattan, Brooklyn, New Jersey (close to Manhattan)
- Budget reality check: $1,450-1,500 unrealistic for Manhattan; $1,900-2,000 more realistic for studios
- REQUIRES broker fee - typically one month's rent
- Wants CONFIDENTIALITY AGREEMENT before sharing property info
- Protective of landlord relationships - doesn't want clients bypassing her
- Needs to "run it by broker" before committing
- Understands Split Lease model: split-week tenants creating full-time lease
- INTERESTED in partnership - will send listings by Friday
- Prefers TEXT communication over email
- Willing to mark up listings with her fee included
- Looking to start with rooms/studios/one-bedrooms (lower cost inventory)
- PARTNERSHIP POTENTIAL for ongoing inventory sourcing
