HOST CALL TRANSCRIPT: JOHN
Date: [From original data]
Duration: ~6 minutes
Agent: Bryant
Host Type: Experienced NYC Landlord / Upfront Payment Required

---

00:02 Hey, is this John? Yes, this is Brian. Thanks for taking my call. I'm going to be talking with you. Yeah. So I just wanted to, um, hopefully learn a little bit more about the space and then answer any questions that you had for me or anything like that. Um, so looks like the, just to confirm the space is, um, it's set, uh, east 56 near second and first avenue. Is that right? Okay. And then, uh, 5,000 a month. And then with the $3,000 deposit.

00:36 Yep. Got it. Um, and then the, could you talk about parking a little bit? I know it said off street parking. Um, but yeah,

00:46 Uh, the parking that you need to have a car, uh, you need to put out on the parking, they charge you. Uh, depends what kind of car they have, you know, that's about between four and $500 a month.

01:01 Okay. Okay. Um, and that's in like a, a garage nearby. Okay. Got it. Um, great. And then a laundry was another laundry's in the building.

01:20 Okay. Got it. Uh, and then also I think I, I confirmed this with you as well, but it would be the first available date would be the 15th of March.

01:31 Okay. Got it. Um, yeah, that sounds good. I think that were, that was everything I had for you. Um, yeah. Ariel and Amber were the two who are interested and I know I mentioned, um, split lease is the company that I work for, uh, and we basically match them together. So they both came to us individually and then we matched them as roommates. Um, and we create the custom rental agreement, uh, and guaranteed payments to you as the landlord, uh, in both Ariel and Amber have been, uh, vetted, um, along with a credit check on our end as well.

02:12 And do they have a job here in New York city?

02:14 Yes. So they both work in, in Manhattan, um, which is actually why they're looking for a space they wanted to a place to be close, um, to the work for, uh, basically during the work week for when they're near the office

02:30 Midtown or,

02:33 Um, I'm not exactly, I'm not sure of their exact, uh, work address. I believe it's Midtown, um, our lower Manhattan. Um, but I can, I can ask them to confirm that with them.

02:45 Okay. Well, the only thing to request as well is, uh, a letter of employment, which is very important for me. And, uh, the credit, you said that you checked on that too.

02:59 Yes. And, and we guarantee, um, guaranteed payments to you as the landlord, and that would be within the agreement that we have with you. Um, so like in the case that a payment wasn't made, uh, that doesn't affect what gets, what gets paid to you. That's guaranteed and, and for the letter of employment, that's something that, uh, I can get for you and provide sure.

03:22 Yes, just wouldn't we agree after that, you know, and, uh, the, uh, the, uh, what's it called? Well, uh, if you had the two different persons, I have one, a king sized bed and have another one, like, uh, like a full size bed. So you could just run the individual.

03:50 Yeah. Yeah. That sounds like it'll work. It sounds like it'll work well. Um, if I could get your email, I can send over just basically some information I can send a link to split lease, uh, as well. And then if you had any questions for me, you can either email me back or text me too, feel free to text me anytime. Uh, if you have questions

04:11 And you do any matching, you said from

04:18 Typically. Yeah. So typically the people that we work with are, um, people going into the city, specifically Manhattan for work, and essentially we match them, uh, as roommates and then, um, match them with landlords and find places to stay. Yeah.

04:36 Okay. So you're going to send me by email something you said.

04:39 Yeah, that would be great. Could I get you, I don't think I have your email. Could you share that with me?

04:44 Sure. It's J O H N Villa

04:52 Yep. Gmail.com at Gmail.com.

04:59 No, there were saying, they were saying that they want to stay three months, first group,

05:09 At least three months. They were, they had flexibility on duration. Um, I know they would be looking for at least three months and that's something I can, uh, can talk more with them about in terms of like an exact duration. Would there be something that you would, uh, prefer, prefer? Would you prefer maybe a longer duration? Um, booking?

05:30 Yeah. Oh, it depends if they like it, you know, I liked them. Yeah. Because it's both ways.

05:40 Yeah, Definitely. And, uh, if you, they're going to stay three months, which is very short time, I asked them making, they cannot pay just three months, uh, upfront and then secure the policy and don't be set up the three months.

05:56 Yeah. And in terms of, um, payment, like I mentioned, that will be guaranteed to you through split lease and how it will work is essentially, so for the first month, um, for the first month, uh, rent that would get paid to you the day after the first night that they stayed, uh, and for the security deposit, that's something, split lease matches the security deposit. So you said you charged a 3000, um, deposit. Splitly so would match that. So it would be 6,000, which we'd hold in total.

06:34 Okay. Now you said that after the first night you got, I got to receive the payments.

06:39 So for the first, uh, 30, for the first month, the first 30 days you would receive, uh, you would receive that payment after the first night, um, that they stay and

06:51 Yeah, unfortunately, you know, uh, I've been renting my apartment almost 12 years, uh, back and forth. And, uh, you will not, uh, when we signed the lease and when I received a payment, you know,

07:07 I understand you, you're looking to have all of the payment upfront.

07:13 Yeah. That's because, you know, I give him my apartment completely. I trust him and they get, trust me too.

07:20 I understand. Maybe, um, if there was something that, uh, I could do, maybe get the first, the first 30 nights, um, that payment gets paid to you after the first night that they stay and then the rest of the payment, if that came, um, two weeks later or four weeks later, is that something that would work for you typically?

07:44 No, it wasn't no work. Like I said, you know, uh, I've been in this business for a while and what we do in New York city as when you sign the lease, you give the checks because she or shacks, uh, with its positive and the first month or two or three months, whichever comes from,

08:08 Okay, I understand I can, when I'm going to do, I can talk to our team and see if that's something we can make an exception for it. Like I said, I think Ariel, and Amber's really interested in your space. And I think, um, it's in a really great location for them. So I'll get, uh, I'll email that information over to talk with my team. And, um, like I said, if you have any questions for me, uh, you can feel free to text or email me.

08:33 Okay. All right. Thanks. Yeah. Thanks a lot, John, have a good rest of your day. We'll see.

---

KEY BEHAVIORAL OBSERVATIONS:
- EXPERIENCED NYC LANDLORD - 12 years renting apartment
- East 56th Street location (near 2nd and 1st Ave)
- $5,000/month rent + $3,000 deposit
- Parking garage nearby: $400-500/month
- Laundry in building
- Available March 15th
- REQUIRES UPFRONT PAYMENT - all rent due at lease signing
- "When we sign the lease, you give the checks"
- Standard NYC landlord practice: security + first month (or 2-3 months) upfront
- Requires LETTER OF EMPLOYMENT
- Two beds: king size + full size (works for two roommates)
- Prefers longer stays but open to 3 months minimum
- "It depends if they like it, you know, I like them. It's both ways"
- Payment timing is a potential blocker - won't accept payment after first night
