HOST CALL TRANSCRIPT: JOIE COELHO
Date: 5 July 2022
Duration: ~13 minutes
Agent: [Unknown - possibly Robert]
Host Type: Real Estate Agent / Art Gallery Owner

---

00:14 I am doing good. Hey, thanks for quick response here. Uh, listen, I'd like to chat with you a couple minutes here. Um, I like to introduce myself properly. I worked for the company called split lease and our clientele is a type of, uh, renters, like Zella who needs to come back every week to the same place. And, uh, I sensed that the place would be great for her and I'd like to present it to her. The only thing is I need to list it on our website to present to her. So would you be willing to list your place on our website?

00:59 Oh, so this is, I'm a little confused, so you're okay. So your, uh, your

01:06 I've worked for split lease and if you type in Google split lease, you will see our site, whereas the first one coming up. So we are somewhat similar to Airbnb and other sites who listing the properties. So I have right now too much demand and not enough inventory. And that's why

01:31 It sounds great. I mean, I have a, I have a great place.

01:35 Yeah. So, and on the top of that, there is no charge to you whatsoever. So

01:43 There's no charge. Uh, the, I know what you would like to have. Obviously we will ask Zella to pay with a mortgage, not charity, but, uh, at the end of the day, you will receives the amount you request.

01:59 Okay. So it's two, it's two nights a week.

02:01 Yeah. It's two nights a week for this six months. And after that, she would need four nights a week.

02:10 We can do this. So what does she do? You know where she says the crown? You don't really know her,

02:18 Uh, she's a client, but we vet our clients. We collect all information about them. And we also do what we also do. We guarantee the payment to the landlord like you, and we also match, uh, uh, damage deposit. If you ask for, by the way, what is your damage deposit requirement?

02:38 Well, I like it to be equal to one month. And actually we have, I have quite a bit of odd and expensive stuff. It's own art gallery, so,

02:49 Okay. So the bottom line is if you ask for a thousand dollar, uh, damage deposit with our match, so if there is a damage, you wake up 2000, so that's a, that's a service we provide to our landlords. And that is, that tells you how we vet our clientele, because if we are willing to put our money where our mouth is, let you tell you something,

03:19 Okay, well, I'm a real estate agent myself. So I mean, this is my place, but I'm a real agent myself.

03:26 Actually, maybe you have more properties because like I told you, I have a hell of a lot of demand and not enough inventory. So if you don't want,

03:36 Let me, let me, let me, let me, let me talk to some people who have larger places. And, um, yeah, I can see on your way.

03:45 Yeah, that sounds wonderful. I have your email. I have your phone number and as a, as the name you gave me, is that correct? Full name because I know.

03:59 Yeah. So, uh, I'm going to use that to establish your account on our website and also to take information from the link you sent and create your listing. We will send you a link to, to the listing to claim. So it, so basically I'm trying to do the cold work for you. So the only thing you would need to do just to claim that listing, and after that, we will present it to Zelda. And I said, well, it should work just fine.

04:35 'cause I was just assuming she was from Michigan, but

04:38 I know she is not giving me just, I am from Michigan. I need to know if I'm Soviet union, but it's been already sorted two years.

04:53 Oh, wow. Okay. So where are you? Are you actually in Troy, Michigan, or?

04:59 I lived in Detroit for 30 years. I had a gallery there yet. I love that. I love Michigan.

05:10 Give me a second to pull up Zelda's information. I know it was a tree is getting position in the college and, uh, she was to get

05:24 Well, I'm I'm I'm, I'm like five minutes from city college.

05:29 Yeah. That's what exactly we're looking for.

05:32 Yeah, we can, you can see it. If you stand in the middle of the street, you can see it. If you look up the hill,

05:37 That's perfect. Uh, I apologize. I need to find my database

06:26 So what are you list by the night? Is that, how do you do this?

06:31 How we do that? We do it by the night, but, uh, uh, and the price per night usually will fluctuate on the no side, actually, while I'm least looking for it. Let me send you an email with a link to the side. So you could see the side, actually, you can type

06:53 Do you have my email? Yeah. Okay. Yeah,

06:57 Not the one that was on Craigslist. They don't email.

06:59 Yes, I do. Uh, I am going to a second.

07:24 I just sent, I believe I just sent you a mail.

08:03 One more, just put my contact information.

08:43 Just the other one. The calculators, never time. You're trying to do something first. It doesn't. I'm so sorry. Worries.

09:17 I just sent you my contact information. You can type www.split.com, or you can do www.split-lease. Both of them are us.

09:33 Wait a minute. Let me see if I just got an email. Hold on, Robert from Craigslist. Wait a minute. Robert, I just got the email too.

09:51 Okay. How about I'll just text you if it doesn't want to characterize it as better text,

10:02 I'm going to text. I'm going to email you my mind. Maybe you could just do it if I email you mine. Okay. Okay. Hold on. Hold on.

10:33 Okay. And I say, Splitly okay. This is, um, this is great. Yeah.

10:51 Yeah. So I guess I don't need to send you now since you found the website,

10:55 I found the website. So

11:05 Basically people reserve per night and more than its zig is cheaper. Each night is usually,

11:17 And you had just got a list for me and you have someone for me already.

11:20 Yeah. That's what I said. Like, I just need to present it to her and make sure she likes it. But yeah,

11:30 I have a roommate in there and she's moving out, but I just want, you know, I want to make, you know, I want to confirm everything with her once you confirm with me.

11:36 Yeah. One more question. Uh, usually what we do, we pair people to make it more affordable for them where we're pairing people said, okay, somebody needs two nights. Somebody needs other nights, total six. And it becomes a lease agreement of two with the landlord. So

12:03 I want to try it.

12:04 Yeah. But was that one person I would say is that it's probably would be difficult to mesh because she needs middle of the week and it's difficult to match. But in general, I'm just trying to explain the, as a concept.

12:21 Okay. Yeah, I get it. Yeah. Yeah. For me personally, I just want one person. I like,

12:26 Yeah. Okay. That sounds Fine. Yeah.

12:31 Okay. So it's great talking to you. Let me get to work and we'll be in touch. You see the links was a account to claim when Lugo firms, as soon as he claimant, I have a sensationalism to tags, at least in presented to Zella and see if she wants to go here. Okay.

12:55 Sounds good. Thank you so much for talking to you.

12:59 Okay. Thank you. Bye-bye.

---

KEY BEHAVIORAL OBSERVATIONS:
- IS A REAL ESTATE AGENT - potential for additional properties
- Owns an ART GALLERY - has "expensive stuff" in place
- Originally from Detroit (30 years) with gallery there
- Space near City College (5 minutes away)
- Has a current roommate who is moving out
- Wants damage deposit equal to one month rent
- Prefers ONE PERSON only - doesn't want pairing
- Guest discussed: Zella (needs 2 nights/week for 6 months, then 4 nights/week)
- Found via Craigslist
- Open to listing on Split Lease platform
- Said would talk to people about larger properties
