HOST CALL TRANSCRIPT: JUNE
Date: [From original data]
Duration: ~14 minutes
Agent: Bryant
Host Type: Experienced Landlord / Real Estate Agent

---

00:09 Hello? Hey, is this June? Hi, June. This is Brian going to be talking with you.

00:16 Oh

00:17 Yeah. How are you doing today?

00:19 Okay, good. I'm going to admit, um, I got, I got a couple of zoom calls today.

00:26 What's going on with Amber? If Amber, oh, that's the roommate's name? Amber is the roommate. So Ariel and Amber

00:35 I'm like, yup.

00:36 Both. Both of them are A's so Ariel and Amber are, uh, their names. Yes. And, Um,

00:46 Yeah, so they were interested in your space, which is why I'm reaching out to you. And just to give you a little bit of background. So basically, um, Ariel and Amber initially reached out to, um, I work for a company called split lease. So they reached out to us, um, looking for a place and basically we matched them as roommates. Uh, and they were interested in your place in booking your place. Um, and basically looking to, uh, start with around like three months. And I mentioned they'd be looking to start in mid February.

01:22 Um, but yeah, that's basically a little bit of background. They had come to us and we had matched them as roommates, and then they showed interest in your space. And that's why I wanted to reach out to you just to get a little bit more information on sort of like availability and just confirm, uh, the pricing and things that I saw on furnished finder.

01:39 I believe it was the one bedroom. Uh, the

01:43 I'm not going to be available until March 2nd, a third third, because the people extended this day.

01:55 Got it. And, and I know start date for them. Um, for Ariel and Amber is something that's flexible. Uh, they, they mentioned that to me. So that's potentially something that could still work for them, uh, starting to.

02:12 So Ariel is, um, they're both, uh, they're both older. Ariel is I think, mid thirties. Um, but basically she's looking for, uh, to be closer to her work. So she works in the city. Uh, and then Amber is, um, similarly more. So Ariel is more looking for a space close to her work to be at. And then Amber is more looking for a space just to be in the city and closer to some friends.

02:40 Okay. Well the, well, but you messed him off. Yeah, of course. Everybody has a job. You have like documentation on them.

02:53 Yeah. And we, so we've vetted both Ariel and Amber have been vetted. Uh, that's something that we do as Splitly. So we vet them, uh, and I'll mention like payments are guaranteed to you as the landlord. So, uh, we create the, the rental agreement, uh, and then there's a separate agreement as well. And that's where, uh, payments to you, uh, are guaranteed. So upon signing that, even in the case that, uh, like a guest missed a payment or didn't pay, uh, you still get paid, uh, and that's our guarantee of as split lease.

03:25 Okay. I've never heard of fuddling so,

03:29 Yeah. Yeah. We, I I'd be happy to share some information with you. Um, maybe could I get your email too, to send some stuff over to you? I mean, you don't have my Email. I don't think so. No.

03:41 Oh, because you're going to first find it is going to my email.

03:46 Yeah. I don't think it gave, gave an email. No, I don't have your email. Awesome. That'd be great. And then another, another question I had too. I see. I think it was listed at 20, uh, 2,700 about on furnished finder. Is that right? Okay.

04:05 Got it. Okay.

04:08 But the electric bill, because people have been ridiculous with the limited bill, I believe it's only covered up to 40, the first $40 I pay and they have to pay different.

04:19 Okay. So anything over that amount is paid by the guests.

04:26 I mean, I have had bills of a hundred, $200. I was like, what are you doing in the apartment? It's unbelievable. I have a three family house. No, have that free stuff. Running the lift. The heat is orange while the windows are open. They not home running, you know, all of that stuff. So I'll have to go. I had to start protecting myself cause it was getting too much.

04:51 Yeah. I get that. Yeah. So covered the first you cover the first 40 and then pass that is charged to the guests.

04:59 Okay. And then they just want three months or that's just as start. They feel it out how they work together, goes together.

05:09 Yeah. They had mentioned basically looking to start with three months. I know Ariel is definitely, would be interested in something longer than that. Um, but if that would be something that could work for you and a lot of times for what we can do is like start with three months, three to four months. And then, um, there's like the option to extend if it would work for you and work for them as well to extend the booking, uh, after it's made. Um,

05:40 Okay. Sounds good.

05:40 But they decide, tell them it's something they have to decide quickly because I would have to block it on, um, like convenient or whatever, you know, the different platforms I have it on.

05:52 Yeah. I got, I got it. So yeah, let you know, so that you can make that it's blocked off on other sites. Um, okay. Um,

06:04 And so I wouldn't have to, but I can still see the paperwork on been like, I know you said they vetted, but I guess I need to, oh. Or you just going to take care of all that? Cause I need to know who they are and what type of people. I don't, I don't want Connie in the house.

06:15 Yep. And, and that's so we, our vetting process. Yep. Our vetting process, we, um, get credit information. We, I had shared their LinkedIn, um, their LinkedIn with you. Uh, if that would be,

06:33 I went home. I been going through a lot of stuff myself. I'm sorry.

06:37 No worries. I can, what I can do is send you my email, uh, and if you have any questions or anything, you can email me whenever. Uh, you said you sent your email so I can follow up with that information later today.

07:32 Okay. Are there any ease? Anything? No. There shouldn't be any fees on your company. Does your company have,

07:36 So there's a service fee, but that's charged to the guests. So no fees on your own. What you ask for a fee, your rent is what's guaranteed to you.

07:47 I'm surprised I've never heard of as well as I'm a real estate agent as well. I find everybody my own.

07:57 I'm going to find it everybody else, but not myself.

08:02 I will say. Yeah, we're, we're a newer company. I'd say we've been operating in New York for almost a year and a half now. Um, so that may be maybe why, but I'll also, I'll be sure to send you over information. You can check out our site and if you do have any questions or anything like that, you can always text me. Um, and I'd be happy to happy to answer and how,

08:27 I do have one more. Is it 1 25? That's the one that right? Yes. Okay. I'm 40. Okay. Now the sites. Okay.

08:32 So at one 40 cleaning fee, got it. Um, one 40 cleaning fee, then 2,500 for the deposit. Um, and it says, it says 26 90 for the rent on furnished finder. Is that right?

09:12 Okay. Got it. So I'll make sure that that gets accurately entered when the listing is created. And then, like I mentioned, I'll, I'll be sure to share that with you. Uh, and then from there, like you can, you'd be able to make changes, um, to anything from, from that point.

09:36 It's something like join in with, and you can list both of my apartments.

09:41 Oh, certainly. Yeah. And if you, yeah, I can definitely do that. And uh, so yeah, I'll have your email and all I need basically, what, if you can share the, I have the link obviously to this place, the one bedroom. Um, and if I, if you could just, even like, if you just texted me the link, what I can do is create the listings for you and then, uh, send them over to, and everything should, uh, be good. Like, I'll take the information from your other listings, but I'll send it over to you and you can, from there, you'd be able to change anything that didn't look right. Or if there's any other changes you wanted to make and I'd send that over to,

10:12 Uh, exit, uh, I do. Is it 1 25? That's the one that right? Yes. Okay. I'm 40. Okay. Now the sites. Okay.

10:27 So at one 40 cleaning fee, got it. Um, one 40 cleaning fee, then 2,500 for the deposit. Um, and it says, it says 26 90 for the rent on furnished finder. Is that right?

10:36 Okay. Got it. So I'll make sure that that gets accurately entered when the listing is created.

10:59 Okay. Are there any ease? Anything? No. There shouldn't be any fees on your company. Does your company have,

11:04 So there's a service fee, but that's charged to the guests. So no fees on your own. What you ask for a fee, your rent is what's guaranteed to you.

11:14 I'm surprised I've never heard of as well as I'm a real estate agent as well. I find everybody my own.

11:24 I'm going to find it everybody else, but not myself.

11:29 I will say. Yeah, we're, we're a newer company. I'd say we've been operating in New York for almost a year and a half now.

12:29 No tenants. They basically found a new roommate and they just stayed and they just kept looking at

12:40 Yeah. A roommate replacement. Yeah. Just replacing romaine. Yep. Yeah. And we, and yeah, I work with many other guests too. So like, I know you mentioned your other place. I'd be happy to try and find typically, um, like your place is actually a really great location. Uh, the one bedroom is we see a lot of people looking around the Harlem area is a really popular area and then also sort of towards lower Manhattan. So I don't know where your other places have.

13:08 The tune is 3 29 express downtown.

13:14 Great. Yeah. So I I'd be happy to, um, let you know of any interest in the other place too, and share your place with, uh, the guests that we're working with. And I can, I'd come to you similar, uh, how it did with area on Amber.

13:27 Okay, great. Uh, any, any other questions for me June? Okay. If you do, like I said, you can always, you can always text me and if you want to set up another call, I'm happy to do that. Usually I like to set up a time before, but for sure, anytime, if you want to text me, um, please do, I'd be happy to help. And I'll basically I'll get those listings created. Um, I can send you an email with a link to our site and, uh, you can expect that shortly after the call.

14:00 Awesome.

14:01 Sounds good. Yeah. Thanks so much, June. Have a great rest of your day.

14:05 Let's see.

---

KEY BEHAVIORAL OBSERVATIONS:
- IS A REAL ESTATE AGENT - surprised she hadn't heard of Split Lease
- Owns THREE-FAMILY HOUSE in Harlem area
- Has MULTIPLE APARTMENTS (at least 2 to list)
- Available March 2nd/3rd (current tenant extended)
- $2,690/month rent, $2,500 deposit, $140 cleaning fee
- Electric: First $40 covered, rest charged to guests
- Had bad experiences with utility abuse (heat on, windows open, $100-200 bills)
- Wants quick decision so she can block on other platforms
- Concerned about guest quality ("I don't want Connie in the house")
- Wants to see paperwork/vetting info
- Going through personal stuff - busy
- Has listings on Furnished Finder + other platforms
- Near 3/2/9 express downtown
- Open to listing multiple properties
