HOST CALL TRANSCRIPT: KEAH
Date: [From original data]
Duration: ~4 minutes
Agent: Frederick
Host Type: Quick Onboarding Host

---

00:07 Hi.

00:10 Hello? Hi Kia, can you hear me?

00:15 Yeah, yeah, I'm hearing you. Okay. This is Frederick from Craig. Yeah.

00:23 Great. So yeah, I wanted to tell you about who we are. We are a split list and we specialize in matching hosts like yourself and like the ad that you read on Craig List with guests that are looking for part of the week each weeknights in the city.

00:44 Is that what you're looking for? Right. Awesome.

00:50 So yeah, do you have any questions for me for so far?

01:15 Yeah. It's like a matchmaking service and also we are the intermediaries between you two. So yeah, the guest will pay us and we will pay you. We have the warranty that if when the contract and the sign that leases start you will receive your payment even if the guest doesn't pay. This is not something that has happened, but it's just a warranty that we do on our end for you.

01:43 It's free for you to lease on our side. You don't have to pay anything. We don't charge fees. What we charge is to the guests, but to you, you will receive the rate that you said that you said you want to receive. Even it is nightly, weekly, or monthly. Good.

02:05 <laugh>,

02:13 can you repeat that again? I just texted you outside, so you have to link to access it whenever you want. But can you repeat what you said? Sorry.

02:29 No, no, it's not a problem. Good <laugh>.

02:36 So yeah, I think that next steps will be on my end to create your account on a split list and submit submit your listing there. I can do that process for you or you can do it by yourself however you want. How, how would you prefer to continue?

02:59 Good.

03:03 That's exactly how it works. So yeah, once you, well, I, I just send you the link. Once you have an account created, you have to go to the host with US section, and there you will find the self list, my property, and yeah, there you will put all the, all the, all the details, pictures and stuff about your listing.

03:28 Okay.

03:33 Yeah, exactly, exactly that, how it will work. I will send that listing directly to her. This, in this case that the ad that you reach out for is, is it's a woman. I will share that listed with her and in case that she's interested, that is probably true because it feeds with what she's looking for. She will submit something that we call proposal. It's like a message to you and you'll receive it and then you can start communicating each other and yeah.

04:07 Okay.

04:08 Sounds awesome.

04:17 Yeah. Great. Sounds awesome. Okay, well thanks Kia. Kia. Kia awesome. I'm pronouncing well. Your name Kia or Yeah. Okay, great. Well that to you soon.

04:37 Thanks. Bye.

---

KEY BEHAVIORAL OBSERVATIONS:
- Short, efficient call
- Found via Craigslist
- Responsive to explanation of service
- Willing to create own account (self-service)
- No objections to matchmaking model
- Female guest already identified for her listing
- Easy onboarding - just needed link and instructions
- Brief responses indicate agreement
