HOST CALL TRANSCRIPT: KEN CHANG
Date: 3 August 2022
Duration: ~5 minutes
Agent: Robert
Host Type: Future Availability Host

---

00:02 Hi cam this Robert, how are you? I'm good. Hey, we finally connected.

00:11 Yeah. So, um, I'm reading the information you sent me. And, uh, uh, I would like to introduce myself a little more in detail because, uh, I work for the company called split list and we usually assist people, finding the roommates for people who needs a part-time and then like, uh, usually it is, uh, uh, people like commuters who come into the city, let's say Monday, so Friday, something like that.

00:51 So, uh, I, when I read your note sayings that you need it from beginning of the 2023, that really doesn't concern me at all because we get a demand all the time and we can service you appropriately, even from that time.

01:11 So if you would be interested to list your place with us, we will help you to establish the Eastern and start sending you the potential candidates. Uh, we don't charge anything from the, from the guy where queue. Basically we will mark up a little as price and, uh, uh, it's all coming forms, a person, Koreans, not firms, uh, coast.

01:43 So if you list with us and nothing happened, all you lose is the time you spent sentencing information to me. No charges, no charges.

01:55 Okay. Um, can you just [Inaudible] and also, um, so you don't have any kind of days right now, right? But you might have,

02:13 I have candidates mostly for next two months, not from, for the 20, 26, but we have enough time to get you everything you need.

02:27 So, And you just to get an idea, but they can give you the care about and the how work, something like that. Yeah.

02:39 Uh, what I would like to do is let me see if I have your email. I don't, I don't believe I have your email doing no.

02:46 Uh, I sent you back by email because your email just focused. Yeah. It really is form that I believe twos, uh, uh, I believe you responded to, uh, uh, credibly. Not too. Yeah,

03:04 Yeah, yeah. I had this. If you text me to this number, your email address, I will send you all detailed information about website, how we work, uh, ever since what you need to know about us, you will get my LinkedIn profile, all my ads,

03:26 My email, and then you're just for the information sharing. Yeah. And I look forward your information with your phone number, name, and mail. I can even start you. Pre-sign your, the website to save you the time. So you could use the account. And basically I assist you any way I can to make your experience with us as easy as possible, because this is, this is what actually my job was to assist our clients and make the experience pleasant.

04:00 Yeah. Yeah. I get a rough idea, but I need a body now. Okay. Um, I send you my name, my phone number and my email address for you. So when you're handling,

04:12 I sank, I sank. I have your name is Ken Chang. Yeah. I have your phone number because I'm calling it. So the only thing I need is your email address.

04:24 Okay. Sounds good. And we will be in touch. I hope you will find our experience pleasant.

04:29 Yeah. Yeah. Okay, great. Okay. Thank you. Yeah. Thank you. Bye-bye. Hi.

---

KEY BEHAVIORAL OBSERVATIONS:
- Space available from beginning of 2023 (future availability)
- Brief, efficient conversation
- Responsive to outreach from Craigslist
- Understands no upfront charges
- Willing to provide email for more information
- Agent offered to pre-set up account to save time
- Short call - just initial connection and information exchange
