HOST CALL TRANSCRIPT: KENT
Date: [From original data]
Duration: ~12 minutes
Agent: Frederick
Host Type: Due Diligence Host

---

00:22 Hello? Yes, Hi Kent, this is Frederick with your. Oh. Hi. How are you?

00:28 Yeah, I'm fine. How are, what about you? You, you sound like, you're, you're standing in a Well, Big Echo.

00:37 Oh, big echo. Oh, I'm on my office. <laugh>, <laugh>. You don't have carpet in your office? There's what? You don't have carpeting in your office? No, there's no carpet. You know, my office either <laugh>, maybe, I dunno, the walls or something. <laugh>, but can you hear me well? Like, you understand? Yeah. Okay, awesome.

01:06 So yeah you're curious about what I just described to you about Split?

01:13 Yeah. I mean, you know, to tell me what you guys do.

01:17 Good. Yeah. So we are a company and name split list, as I said, and we find we help guests that are looking for part of the week, each week rentals, like for example, Monday to exactly Friday every week for a minimum of three months. That's the minimum that we require. Yeah. So they can come into the city and stay in a place that will be always the same and, and yeah, for a ship option that all those are Airbnbs and yeah, this is this is new and, and relatively modern and, and on top of, of the new reality because of IRE working and how people is returning to office and they require to do. Right. Yeah.

02:10 And are these international people or u US people or both?

02:17 Yeah, right now, right now we are just based in the US and to be more specific, we are just targeting in New York City. But Theda is to expand over the United States and then international of course. But yeah, for now it's just on New York, so.

02:38 Okay. And what's your background? My background, like my personal background or? Well, no, I mean like your real estate background.

02:50 Okay. So yeah, I don't have real estate background. I'm a, an executive assistant on the, on the company and Okay. Yeah. But the CEO and the founder of the company, he was a he founded a property manager, property management company, and he also had a couple of, of properties on Airbnb listed before, and I think that's his background. But I, I can ask for more, more context about his background if you wanted.

03:25 Yeah, I'd be interested in that. Okay. And then how, how does it work to, to the people pay you and then you pay me or they pay me directly.

03:35 Yeah, exactly. So how would, you said originally they paid us and we pay you we have a way of charging them by credit card or by deposits, so Right. You won't be you don't have to take care of collecting payments. You always will be receiving your monthly payment. So we take care of that and that's one of the service we also offer just in case for example, the guest has an issue with payment that sometimes it can happen. It hasn't happened yet, but you know, how, how, how this is even if that happens, even if that happens, we, we will pay you because we are the on that.

04:22 And then how does it work to, do we both like pay you a fee or, you know, for the service? How does that work?

04:33 So the, the fee that is not actually a fee, but what we charge is to the guests they, they, they rent the space for a hike rate that the one that you publish, but you'll receive, you'll receive the, the yeah, the money, the, the amount that you set on the site.

04:56 I see, okay. Yeah. And do you do any vetting or, that's up to me. Any what, sorry. Do you do you do any vetting of these people or you know Yeah. How, you know who they're

05:05 Yeah. On the site we have rental application form, which this guest Phil, and we call it all the information about their jobs, about their situation, their financial situation. We also do checks on the documents they submit to us. They have to sign leases. So yeah, we have all that information covered and, and well checked.

05:41 And then what, what do you need from me?

05:44 For you or from, from, from your end? We need your listing like to polish it on our site so that way I can start sharing it with, with clients that I have in mind right now. Right. And see if they express interest. We also need you to, to sign some leases once the, once the rental and the matchmaking happens. Yeah, I think that's, that's mostly what we need from your end.

06:16 Okay. And what else do, do you guys have references of your own? Like, you know, how, how do I check you out?

06:29 Yeah, yeah. Lemme share with you on, on the email that, that we have the link to our site and the link to our success stories. So you can read you can read experience from previous customers. Yeah. And also some informative pages.

07:02 And then when you make the payment, when do those come?

07:11 They come every four weeks. Let me wait, gimme one second that I'm sharing with you the page. So yeah, the payments comes to you every four weeks and it also depends on when the contract starts. But yeah,

07:59 What else should I know? What am I not asking you that I should be asking you?

08:04 Yeah, let me think about usual questions that we have.

08:11 And how, how old is this company?

08:13 How old? Five years? Yeah, for now. Oh, okay. Yeah.

08:19 Okay. So its not like you're a startup.

08:22 We are a startup, but we have we have some, some time in the, in the industry already. We have success stories here from previous host like you that I found on correct list. Yeah.

08:48 And what else I can share with you? I think this links so far are good, and also let share with you my information so you can have it hand like my email and phone number.

09:10 Great. Yeah, no, cause I wanna, you know, do my due diligence before I agree to anything.

09:19 Yeah, for sure. Makes total sense. And I totally understand.

09:24 I mean, do you, do you have like a sample contract you can send me?

09:27 Yeah, wait, I have sample contracts that I can send you, so Great. Yeah.

09:31 Terrific. And so, so they're generally for a three month minimum? Is that the deal?

09:39 Yeah, sorry for six weeks. I, I, I said three months, but six weeks is the minimum. Yeah.

09:46 Yeah. See, I don't wanna do anything that short.

09:49 Okay. Yeah, you can also set, you can also set your listing for, for longer than that. Like you want monthly rates or, yeah. Okay.

10:02 So I'm gonna share with you this other page when we have the policies and all the documents that we use, you will see there an example of a rental agreement, an example of a supplemental agreement the credit card authorization form that we ask guests to sign so that way we can charge on their credit cards. Yeah. The booking agreement example of those are on this, on this page I'm gonna send you.

10:37 And do you have a phone number that you can use, like for texting or you prefer to always have these kind of calls?

10:47 Well, I can, I can give you a number for texting. I use this just because I don't, my cell phone, you know, up with a bunch of phone numbers I don't need. Okay.

11:00 If you, you can, you can, 8 7 8 3 9 0 9 7 8 1 7 8 3 9 0. Is that right? You got it.

11:17 Good. Okay. So I, all right, well I look forward to your, your information. Yeah. And I'll review it and I'll get back to you.

11:26 Yeah, sounds great. Thanks. Thank you so much. Thanks to you. Talk to you soon. Bye-Bye. Bye. Good call. Call. It was.

---

KEY BEHAVIORAL OBSERVATIONS:
- Wants to do due diligence before committing
- Asked about company background, founder's experience
- Interested in references and success stories
- Wants to see sample contracts
- Prefers longer minimum stays (doesn't want 6-week minimum)
- Uses separate phone for business to avoid clutter
- Asks about payment timing (every 4 weeks)
- Wants to understand fee structure clearly
- Methodical, asks good questions ("What am I not asking?")
- Company is 5 years old - reassured it's not brand new
