HOST CALL TRANSCRIPT: KRIS (Christopher)
Date: [From original data]
Duration: ~10 minutes
Agent: Bryant
Host Type: High-Value Property Owner (Delegator)

---

00:01 I. Well, thank God you call. Cause my boyfriend is here and we are kind of like stupid and we don't know how to do it. And he gets all like frustrated.

00:14 Yeah, no worries me. I've done in my Airbnb, but I did like in 2001 or a long time ago, I don't recall doing anything. So I'm going to pass my thing for him. And do you mind talk to him because he's a little there, but as I spoke to you, not at all, he has no idea of anything. It's just basically whatever. I try to tell whatever, you know, it's on there, man. And you say yes or no, isn't there because there's only one, this, this is that it's not a, what he wants is what are they asking? And then you go, so I'll test him to see if he can complete this. All right. And I'll be speaking to you soon. His name is Christopher.

01:00 Okay. Thanks for reaching back. Hold on as Christopher. Yes.

01:05 Yeah. Good to speak with you as well. That week we're talking. All right. So I filled out the profile, but I didn't see the pictures on the singer. I think that, uh, Chris Kenner said that she had, um, sent you the pictures for my apartment.

01:26 And, um, I don't know if she mentioned, so I put the, so Christiana has a split lease account and the listing is under her account currently, which sounded like, um, what, uh, or what she had thought you would want to do. Yeah.

01:43 And you know, I go away for three weeks. I come back for two weeks, so it's a weird schedule. It's expensive, you know, my part's expensive to make some money on this.

01:53 It's really a great fit because a lot of the you're the people that we work with are sort of like compliment your schedule very nicely. And that they're looking for like part of the month, each month. So when, yeah, when Christiana mentioned, I was like, this was, it's a great fit. It's a really perfect for the guests that we work with. So

02:13 That's great. That's great. All right. So, you know, it's, it's, uh, it's, it's a nice apartment. It's on the nicest street in New York. It's on 57th between park and Lexington, and there is an elevator it's in an old townhouse, but it's a big townhouse apartments, pretty big. It's not a one bedroom. It's actually a one bedroom and one office. There's an office off of my bedroom. Really great. And you know, the ceilings are about 11 and a half feet high, so it's pretty nice. And then there's a whole rooftop on top of that, that you can use for outdoor dining entertaining, a barbecue and all that.

03:01 Yeah, that sounds great. Um, did you get a chance to look at, so the listing has been made, did you get a chance to see that listening? I have not seen the live stream of the pictures. Okay.

03:11 Um, I don't know if Christiana has a, so it's on her account and if like you would want to make changes, like we have a, there's a description here it's been filled out. If you would want to make changes, it would be done through Christiana's account. Um, and I believe I can actually, um, get her,

03:35 We were on, we were on my list. I didn't see any pictures of, there were no pictures. No.

03:40 Okay. Um, let me take a look. Um, I have the listing now, what I can do is, uh, there should be pictures. There is, is she's logged in and, um,

03:57 She's having a problem. Like,

04:02 Let me send over a, I'll send over the email and then the temporary password that was made in maybe in a, yeah. We can see if that, that works. Let me just pull this from our system and I'll text it over.

04:12 Okay. So I have a question for you. How much do you think I should rent this place for? Cause I pay about $5,500 a month for the apartment.

04:24 Yeah. It's in a really great location. Um, it's a great space. I know. It's you said to one bedroom, um,

04:32 It's more than it's like, it could be considered like one and a half bedrooms as I have an office, but it really is the one bedroom. It's just a very big one veteran because you have an office on the side of my, my bedroom was a desk shell, and all that,

04:50 What I can do actually is, um, we kind of have a tool basically based on similar listings and we use location as well. Um, we can kind of get a price estimate based on other listings and similar listings in the area to help more competitively price and basically see like at what pricing are other places getting booked at. And from there, that's just a recommendation that I can give to you.

05:13 And, you know, and if I have someone who's someone regular, cause obviously they'll get a discount because I'd prefer to work with one or two.

05:20 Yeah. Yep. And that's, and that's how it would work. Yeah. Uh, and if I could get your schedule, that would be very helpful. Um, it sounds like it's consistent. Is that right? In that it would be like, you're there for two weeks and then gone for three weeks there for two weeks.

05:36 That's really what it is with, you know, with within a day or two off. Cause I come back here to see my kids and then I'm in Florida because they need to have Florida at risk.

05:47 Yeah. And this, yeah. It really is a perfect situation for other people that we're looking for. So if I could get, um, maybe I'll text you after, um, to get some on like your exact schedule. That way we can start to match with guests. Like I am self-employed so he can always call me, you know, I have my phone number. I'll give it to you.

06:09 I don't think I do. Yeah. If you could, if you give it to Christiana, that works as well. Um, I know she has my number. She has my number too, but I give it to you if you want. That would Be great. It's 9 1 7 8 5 8 8 5 8 9 4 9 1 4 91.

06:29 Got it. Okay. I'll send you a text. I'm just letting you know that, that to me. Okay. And you know, you can call me, look, if I don't answer, I'll call you back when I can talk to you, but I'm pretty open because I'm, self-employed, I've worked in the medical technology field. It's got it. And I do what I want. Yeah, that's good. That sounds pretty good.

06:52 But thank you for calling back. I really appreciate it. And I'm leaving. I'm going to be leaving on the 21st of February this month and I won't be back

07:04 21st of February. Okay. Just sending over the, um, the login information for Christiana's account.

07:25 I'll make sure that she gets it in. Brian. Brian is sending you the login information. You have it. You have it. Are you there? You're looking at the listing. All right. So let me see.

07:44 Yeah. And not really good pictures, darling. They're not very, You don't show the outside of anything. It doesn't really show the sizes.

07:59 All right. Well, I think we may ask some more pictures. Yeah.

08:02 And if what you can do, if you just send them over to me, I'd be happy to put them on your listing for you. Um, yeah. I, I can do that for you in any, any ones that you send over, I can just add and, and you can always check and if you'd want to add them yourself or make changes, uh, like I mentioned, it would be done through, uh, Christiana's account.

08:21 Sure. So when, when you texted me, why don't you send me your email so I can forward you those pictures?

08:27 Yeah, that would be great. Yep. I will do that. That sounds good.

08:31 Alright cool. Well, I look forward to working with you in the,

08:38 Yeah. I'm glad this is, yeah. It seems like a great fit. And if you have any questions or anything for me, likewise, you can, uh, give me a text or call anytime.

08:44 Okay, cool. That sounds good. Now I've got another thing cause I've got some really good art in that apartment. So I want to make sure that the, you know, how, how, how do you vent to people? How do you go about,

08:55 Yeah, so we, um, we've do all the vetting ourselves and we do, uh, like credit check landlord references. Uh, and part of, part of the reason why we do that as we guarantee payments to you as the landlord. So on, this is something we sort of take on the risk of the guests, what I'd recommend, what we can do as well. Um, like in relation to the art, if you would be comfortable and keeping it in the space, um, I know I can move it. I've so much hurdle.

09:25 It would be, I think it would be up to you certainly. Um, but I will say our, our guests are really a cut above the rest. We are very selective with the guests that we take in. They're usually working professionals. Um, just looking yeah. Looking to use the space primarily for like work work. Yep. I got it. Yeah.

09:44 That's great. All right. I look forward to working with you then. Yeah.

09:49 Sounds great. Sounds good. Yeah. I'm glad I got to talk. I know Christiana is, um, you know, we've, we've talked about you and I've mentioned before, but it's good to finally talk with you. So I'll send you the text, uh, send you my email. Um, and yeah, my name and then we can go from there

10:05 And I'll take more pictures. Yeah, that would be great. Sounds.

10:10 There is an elevator, the townhouse also wishes drink and they live on the last floor.

10:15 Yeah. That's very helpful. Yeah. All right. Sounds good. Thanks Chris. Yeah. Have a great weekend. Yes, you as well. We'll see.

---

KEY BEHAVIORAL OBSERVATIONS:
- PREMIUM PROPERTY: 57th St between Park & Lexington (one of nicest streets in NYC)
- Pays $5,500/month rent
- 1BR + office, 11.5ft ceilings, rooftop access with BBQ
- Has valuable art in apartment - concerned about protection
- Schedule: away 3 weeks, home 2 weeks (Florida)
- Self-employed in medical technology
- Girlfriend Christiana managing the listing on his behalf
- Wants pricing guidance - open to discount for regular guests
- Leaving February 21st
- Pictures need improvement - will send better ones
- Working through Christiana's Split Lease account
- **PERFECT FIT for part-of-month guests**
