HOST CALL TRANSCRIPT: LILLY
Date: [From original data]
Duration: ~11 minutes
Agent: Bryant
Host Type: Detail-Oriented Owner-Occupant

---

00:07 Hello? Hi, is this Lily? Yes, sir. Hey, this is Bryant.

00:14 Yes. Finally.

00:14 Yes. Glad to be talking with you finally.

00:17 Um, your account, your, um, I did try to call you, but your message, your voicemail message says it's full.

00:26 That wasn't today. It was, I don't know if it was yesterday.

00:31 Okay. Yeah. Thanks for letting me know that. Cause I remember you mentioned that you sent a message and then I didn't get it. So that was probably why, but yeah, I didn't, I didn't know that, uh, my, my mailbox was full, so thanks.

00:43 Um, but yeah, I'm glad we were able to talk now. And like I mentioned, um, Ariel and Amber are the roommates, uh, interest in this space. Um, and if I can, I'd like to just ask a couple of questions about the space and then you had any questions for me. Um, yeah, you can feel free to ask.

01:03 Uh, but just to confirm, so it'd be 2,700 for the month. Is that right? Yes.

01:09 Um, yeah, if it's two people though, it'll be 28, 28, okay.

01:17 28. And then, um, the deposit would be, uh, would that be 28? It's all just a one month. Okay. Yes. Yeah, that, um, and then I know, I think I remember it, the listing mentioning that there was paid parking or a parking lot somewhere near the house. Okay.

01:42 And yeah, It's not directly behind, we have a special gate that they would have to go through in order to get to that particular parking space. Um, and yes, that's an additional 300 a month.

02:00 Okay. Um, if both, if it's two people and they both have cars, um, there are parking garages nearby and they can also park on the streets. So,

02:13 Yeah. Yeah. That's good to know. Thank you. Um, and then laundry mat, I saw that there was no laundry in unit, um, sort of launching that close by.

02:24 Yeah. Actually when you cross the street and you go around the corner, there's a laundromat there, but they have free pickup and free delivery. There's also another laundromat that is across the street and then you walk one block up and there's another laundromat around the corner. They all, they all do free delivery and free pickup. There's also another one on the other side as well. Okay. All of the ones in the neighborhood do free delivery and free pickup. Um, there's one, that's more on the east side. Um, that's open 24 hours. So, um, and I believe they also do free delivery and free pickup.

03:14 Okay. That's, that's great. Lots of options. Um, okay then, uh, one of the thing, the, uh, I think it was up to $200 of utilities is covered each month and then I'm assuming above that would just be charged to them.

03:33 Okay. Got it. Um, great. Thank you. That was all of my questions that I had for this space. Um, in terms of, I can tell you a little bit about myself and Ariel and Amber. Um, so I actually work for a company called split lease and, uh, we essentially match roommates typical to Ariel and Amber, um, basically who need have primary residences outside of the city, um, but need to be in the city, um, for certain amounts of time, for whatever reason.

04:03 So Ariel and Amber are both work in Manhattan, um, but have primary residences in Connecticut. So currently they're commuting in and out of the city, but are looking for something where they can stay, uh, like after working come back to, um, during the week.

04:19 Uh, so they came to us individually and then we matched them as roommates. And they've both been vetted, uh, including like verification of employment, income, credit check, uh, landlord references we have for both of them.

04:34 Um, and yeah, that's how that came to be. And we have our own, um, rental agreement, which would be between yourself and the guests as well as a supplemental agreement between, uh, yourself as the landlord and split lease. And that's where we, uh, damp we would, uh, match the damage deposit. So in this case, a 2,800 split lease would match that as well as guaranteed payments to you as the landlord.

05:00 So upon signing of the agreement, um, I guess the price that you charge and the rent payments are guaranteed to you, even if something were to happen, uh, and maybe I guess weren't to make a payment. Um, so at least guarantees the payment to you, uh, upon the signing of that agreement.

05:26 Okay. I would definitely want to see the paperwork.

05:32 Yep. Um, and then I actually created my own lease, um, because that's basically how I typically do things. Um, I modified it cause I used to have the apartment just for regular tenants.

05:47 However, um, I was saying to myself, you know, what do a furnished, especially with the, with what's going on right now. And, um, so it's been modified because, um, it's not just the apartment, all the furniture that you see up there comes with the apartment. Yeah. It comes from the ship.

06:11 Got it. And I'd be happy to send over that information. We actually have an example of both agreements and I can send those to you. Could I grab your email actually, so I can send that over.

06:27 Um, oh, to email the, uh, let me go back on my computer.

06:38 All right. Let me, I don't think I have your email address outside of, um, Yeah, I don't think we ever, I can text it to you or if you want to text your, to me either way.

06:55 Um, yeah. And I can send that over. And I also, um, I was working on, um, I just need to print it out the, uh, because I think that furnished finder, I saw it, it was like, well, I guess they are travel professionals. They're just not travel nurses.

07:13 Um, a welcome kit as well. Now, what, how long are they looking to live here? Is it three months or a year?

07:21 Yes, they have, they can be flexible. Um, they've said like ideally like three to four months. And really that would be to kind of like start and have, like, it sounds like they'd be interested in something longer term, but maybe would prefer to start with like four months rather than commit to a year upfront. Um, but yeah, like four months, three months is around what they'd be looking to start with.

07:52 Okay. Yeah. I will text you my email address and then, um, but I thought, hold on a second because I know when I show this out, I did like hold it, but I guess maybe you guys don't see everything.

08:12 Uh, where, where did you feel the email address?

08:18 Let me go back on the site. Hold on. When I was filling out my profile, that was one of the things that They asked, oh, the furnished finder profile.

08:25 Yeah. This is my first time using furnished binder on other, but okay. Going through yeah. Where it says content. Oh, you know what that does that only allows you to see email being?

08:43 Yeah, I think it may, I think it may be private, not, uh, not shown on the site anywhere.

08:50 Okay. All right. So I will text you my email and then you text me yours and I'll give you what I have.

09:03 Yeah. Oh, wow. Okay. That sounds good. I'll follow up with that information. And if you have any questions, feel free to text me or email me, um, either works and you can do that anytime.

09:14 Okay. Yeah. And, uh, just send me, um, what you have as far as, um, if they have proof of, uh, their employment, um, what you found as far as the credit check is concerned, um, that kind of information and whatever the landlord, their previous landlord thing,

09:39 That would be great. But from my understanding, it seems as though you don't, they don't know each other, but you guys just match them up based on whatever they filled out for you.

09:48 So we've matched them up and then they've had an email, so we have them eat meat beforehand. Um, so they kind of know each other, I guess, virtually, um, and have them, uh, we also like connect them and they're able to message each other and have each other's contact. So they were initially matched, but they're, um, familiar with each other and have met each other virtually.

10:11 Okay. Um, no, they don't have any pets, do they?

10:14 Nope. No pets.

10:16 Okay. Um, the other thing is I work at night, um, and I need quiet, no musical instruments Playing, playing loudly in the house. They would have to go find a place.

10:31 I know that we have a hope center around the corner. I think people audition there and then, you know, there are some churches and theaters, so if they are into music, they would have to go play there, but they play it in that.

10:47 Okay. All right. Thanks for letting me know that. And then, so do you live, um, in a unit close by?

10:54 I do. I live downstairs. I live on the ground floor And their unit is this a separate entrance?

11:03 It's part of the lows, but they would just go through the gate and walk up the stairs. And then, um, once they go through there, open the doors, there's another one flight of stairs that they have to go to.

11:16 Okay. And they would use that entrance. Okay. Sounds good. Um, great. Uh, anything else for me?

11:27 Um, I can't think of it right now, but when I do, I'll just put it, everything in there.

11:31 Yeah, that sounds good. And like I said, text, email, uh, anytime if you have any questions.

11:37 Okay. Thank you. All right. Yep. Have a great rest of your day.

11:40 We'll talk to you later.

11:41 Thank you. Goodbye.

---

KEY BEHAVIORAL OBSERVATIONS:
- OWNER-OCCUPANT - lives downstairs on ground floor
- $2,700/month (single) → $2,800/month (two people)
- $2,800 one-month deposit
- Parking: $300/month additional (special gate access)
- Utilities: Up to $200 covered, above that charged to guests
- No laundry in unit - multiple laundromats nearby with FREE pickup/delivery
- WORKS AT NIGHT - requires quiet, no musical instruments
- First time using Furnished Finder
- Created her OWN lease (modified for furnished)
- Has "welcome kit" for guests
- Separate entrance - through gate, up stairs
- Wants to see:
  - Proof of employment
  - Credit check results
  - Landlord references
- Travel professionals (not nurses specifically)
- Prefers 3-4 month minimum to start
- Detail-oriented, thorough vetting process
