HOST CALL TRANSCRIPT: LOUISE
Date: 4 August 2022
Duration: ~13 minutes
Agent: Robert
Host Type: Detail-Oriented Renter/Subletter

---

00:00 One second. Okay. Okay. All right. So what do you need to know for me about this? And then I will ask you questions.

00:16 Sure. Basically what I need is in order for me to work with you, I need to create listing of your properties on my website so I can present it to people who are on the waiting list. So I need to know everything about the property, the same type of information. If you, as you do any listing on Ania site, okay.

00:43 Views and you have great reviews, Albert, meaning you seem to go with your gut and you know, those are your gifts and you seem to do very, very well.

00:56 Well, when you're tying to keep in mind the interest of the people you serve, that helps, you know.

01:07 So anyway, uh, what kind of questions do you have?

01:14 How's this work is that two ways it can work. If you are computer later and you can do everything on the site, you can create your listing by yourself. Or if you want me to help, you can email me the picture, the description information about, or, uh, Anderson, any information you want to be on that listings, the price. And you would like to have how much you would want to charge. I will create that listing for you, send you for yoga view. If you like, it will make it active. And then I send that list into the people who are waiting to get the place and ask them to see if they like it.

02:05 Okay. So, so once, so if I send you all the information, pictures or everything else, how does this work in terms of mental coming to see the space? I have to meet somebody before they move in. Obviously there are some people that don't.

02:27 Okay, the way it works is the Z actually don't come in, but we do use the zoom meeting. We, uh, we create, uh, a meeting where you, the person who is applying and ourselves meet via computer. We talk, everybody chats, see whatever they like. He was a likes. A person was a, you will say, yeah, I gave us that if you don't like the person don't agree to that. So you will get to see is.

03:03 Over actually. And the Zelle is the same, which we don't do is we don't give the person who is renting your contact information. We don't give you their contact information. They don't get the exact address until they sign the agreement. We collect the money and we called this money. So Zane have one day, Wednesday comes the first time and let's say you sent me pictures and the pictures show beautiful place because they come in. They see is that it's not like the pictures zinc have a one day to contact me and say, this is not what I was told. I know I'm canceling basically if works exactly the same as it works with Airbnb.

04:00 Okay. So what if we do this virtual meeting and they seem to be okay and I say, okay, come and guess what? They are not. Okay.

04:14 Well, uh, it's a, what would be, if you will do a personal meeting and they come, and they're not the case, If they are drunk, if they, you know, these are not things that people talk about, but these are realities.

04:33 Yeah, sure, sure. Actually, uh, did I send you copies of, uh, templates of agreements we have because we have a lease agreement, which is I have to sign and then zap lease agreements. There is a behavior attached to that. Lease agreement, there's house rules, which you create, you will say, you can do this and you cannot do this. And that is the councils, which attached to the agreement, even say Blake, and you how's the rules. As we can see the violation of his agreement and agreement to stimulate.

05:14 Okay. Um, also how does this work with cancellations and with getting funds transferred?

05:26 Okay. Uh, when's a agreement is signed. We immediately charged them for four weeks worth of stay. So they ask for five, five days or three days, whatever was, uh, uh, payment for the four weeks. We charged them up. We also charged them up. Fonts is, uh, uh, damage deposit and the, any as a fees, if you have any. And we keep that with us, as soon as, like I said, if, uh, a one day process and nobody complaints with transport to use the event, but we keep the damage deposit. It stays with us.

06:18 Uh, what w what we do is this number one, we guarantee you that you will be paid because we are, we are collecting the payment. We guarantee use it. You will be paid. And there is a extra agreement between you and our company, where we sign that our guarantees are going to be implemented. And we give you two main guarantees. Number one guarantee is the payment. And number two guarantee is that we are matching damaged deposit. So if you have damage deposit of $200, and zero is a damage, we have $200 from the person. And we also give you extra 200 from us. If the damage is more than 200.

07:16 More than, You know, they, they put, uh, cigarette holes when there's no smoking allowed for.

07:25 Yeah, basically. And the way damage works is, uh, when, when you notice the damage, you have to submit that request to us. And we, it's a, it's not like we will immediately just send you money. We communicate with the guest and ask them, first of all, uh, if they agree or any explanation, what have you, and we do as a mediation. So if we find that, uh, uh, you are using the requesting money, we will release your money.

08:35 I saw something on your site, as long as it made sense to me. And some of it, data that the tax self rolls through your company.

08:48 Okay, here's, what's happening if you, uh, if you are, uh, uh, if you are also an in Kansas place and you are getting yourself, a mate, we are often asked ourselves as that extra service is to give a payment directly to your landlord. And in Zed case, this is no longer considered your income because you didn't touch this money. It upsets your payment and you save on your Texas.

09:23 Okay. Well, your second, let's back up a little bit. So I, I am a renter and I have a leaf. Okay. And I'm not the landlord. I do not own this apartment. Okay. So you would send money to my landlord. That makes no sense.

09:48 Uh, well, let me explain one more time, uh, imagined for sure, no public imagine imagines that you, uh, negotiating and Ulysses, and you have a roommate. And is that the roommate is also on the lease and the, in the lease says, yeah, hypothetical Zills Toto is, let's say a thousand dollars and you add goods. If you will play five Congo, then somebody else will play five pounds.

10:00 There are two ways of doing that way. Number one, one of the mites collect service and plays directly to landlord way. Number two, each model made sense, his own check. So if you comfortable with, well, why didn't your landlord than formations that somebody else is subleasing from you? You Zen may ask that landlord, if he will accept our check to offset how much you pay. So if you play [Inaudible] and we send, this came five Congress, you need to send only five grounded.

10:51 Okay. On, okay. I'm going to ask some really stupid questions with me. Um, so, so if, if I accept that your company is taking in the money, right. I'm trying to make this simple for me, not for you. Um, um, and then the payments are sent to me, but they're sent to me through your company, your company's like an offshore bank. In other words, um, I don't have to pay taxes on this.

11:33 Yeah. You have to zap. I will not advise you on your tax situation. I just, I'm not text adviser. All I can say is that usually when people sublease and they take money, they supposed report. That's usually the situation is that any rant which you do is income, but we don't take worth it. It's on you to report. You decide to report this as good. You decide not to report it as between you and the government. We do not.

12:13 Do you say the government, a W2 form? No. No, we don't. We, it, it is your obligation to report.

12:24 Do you send me a W2 form? Uh, at this moment we are not sending an innocent, but you will be in our tax return. Your payment would be considered as expense to us. So it would be in all paperwork.

12:47 Yes, I would be. I kind of plan some way. Yes. That's why we suggest to do it directly to the landlord because it doesn't.

13:03 Okay. I'm going to think about this. This is a complicated situation for me, and I really I'd like to keep all of your info and I've made all these notes. Um, and I really appreciate your time, Robert.

13:20 No problem. And, um, I will probably get back to you. Okay. Thank you so much. Have a blessed day and be safe. Bye-bye.

---

KEY BEHAVIORAL OBSERVATIONS:
- IS A RENTER, NOT OWNER - subleasing situation
- Has good Airbnb reviews already
- Very concerned about tax implications
- Asks detailed questions about W2 forms, tax reporting
- Confused about payment-to-landlord option
- Concerned about guest behavior (drunk guests, smoking)
- Wants house rules attached to agreement
- Needs to think about it - complex situation for her
- Values Zoom meetings for vetting
- Takes detailed notes during call
