HOST CALL TRANSCRIPT: LUCI CHAMBERS
Date: 13 July 2022
Duration: ~10 minutes
Agent: Robert
Host Type: Cautious Evaluator

---

00:15 Hello, Lucy. Hi, how are you? Oh, hi. Hello Robert. I'm good. Thank you. How are you?

00:23 Hi, I'm okay, thank you. Sorry, falls. This schedule has been the cause of day.

00:32 Yeah. So let's say, uh, I understand you have a room available or is it apartment? What, what do you have available? Can you explain me

00:41 Which the room I live in my apartment, but I have the bedroom that's available. So this is two bedroom apartment and the one bedroom is available. Studio one bedroom. So the one beds I live in the studio area and the one bedroom is available.

01:00 So, uh, uh, okay. So basically it is, uh, just trying to understand it's one bedroom. Uh, basically you have a kind of like one bedroom with a living room and you're in the living room and one bedroom is available. Is that okay? Okay. I understand. Okay. So, um, and the, it is available for six to eight months. You said, when is, uh, uh, availability when or what date it will be available?

01:39 Well, I'm starting to work on it now. I expect that it will be available no later than, um, August 1st.

01:49 Oh, just for our store. Okay. So it was good. And, uh, uh, what is, how much your months you are asking for?

01:58 Well, I need to really know a little bit more about what the needs are for each individual, how much time they're looking to live in there. And then I can go from there. And maybe you can tell me a little bit about what your needs are. I remember your ad. It said that somebody would commute here, a couple of tech. Tell me your situation.

02:18 Okay. Uh, sure. Uh, I worked for the company which called split lease and we are serving split lease and we are servicing clientele, which needs, uh, intermediate, uh, uh, housing four parties a week. And we have a lot of people who need such arrangement when somebody needs it for two days, say days you name it. And, uh, uh, we actually at an injury to his, uh, between the host and the guest to get together. Um, the, uh, basically where act similar to Airbnb to make it simple.

03:08 So, uh, in order for us to, uh, do service for you and find your right person, we need to do listing on our website. I will present it to all our clientele who is on the waiting list right now, because at this point of time, I have a lot of demand and not enough inventory.

03:55 Well, what are your clients? You don't have a specific client in Mali. I have, uh, maybe 10 of them in mind. It just depends on which one, if they like your place and the, if, uh, if they see the ad where your place is shown and they like it, we will present that clients, those clients two years.

04:18 I see. Okay. I think I'm looking for something a little bit different. I'm looking to offer someone a lease an arrangement agreement.

04:30 Yeah. And Zara is on the list. What we do is where Angelus. So it would be lease agreement. We are not, it's not Airbnb. It would be a lease agreement for six months. I can even send you as a, a sample of the template, which we use for the lease. So you can see how it works, but it is a list. It just depends how many days and what price you would like for those days.

05:03 Okay. And how do you get compensated? How does your business get compensated?

05:07 And we collect the money and we pay you also, we guarantee you the payment. So, because we collect money, we say, if a client doesn't pay, we will pay also. Yes, yes. Zay pay us the fee. They get the total amount. They don't see Z. So you ask for supplies, we mark it up and we sell it. So, so there's no, there was no any additional fees or not fees. Client knows.

06:12 I see, you know what I would like for you to do Robert, this may be, can you either email or SMS me a link or information about your organization? What I thought I, what I'm looking to do is to solicit people that want to make an arrangement with me. I already have a beat and B a bed and breakfast arrangement. I'd have a website already. Was not active. Well, I didn't really want to go through the bed and breakfast.

06:44 Well, that's okay. If you don't want to do it, that's fine. But I will be happy to send you the saline. I will be happy to send you the link. Send me, text me your email address. I'll send it to you. I know you're doing. Okay. I'll send it to you. My email that you asked and why don't you send me a little bit more information.

07:03 I will send you your Explorer, introductory email about our websites, links, the connections samples, sample the agreements, how it works. So you can take a look and see if you decide that the lichens that's great.

07:29 That's sounds great. It's a little bit different than what I was thinking, but if you would do that, I can take a look at your website and then I can make a decision about if I want to add you as part of my marketing.

07:43 Sure. And we don't charge anything up front. So it costs you nothing to market with us.

07:55 Yeah. Okay. Well, that sounds good. Uh, I'm glad he called me back.

08:01 Yeah. So you're Located in Michigan. Uh, yes. We're located on Michigan, but, uh, it doesn't really matter for that type of discussion. The Airbnb located in San Francisco. Does it matter?

08:18 No, I know. I understand. I understand exactly what you're saying. Yeah. Okay. Well that sounds good. Cause I'm getting the place ready now. It's being, uh, cleaned and rearranged and I'm hoping that I will get some kind of arrangement.

08:38 Yeah. We have particular. Yeah. We'll have particular people, which we asked for, but we send it to multiple coasts like you. So whoever first is going to respond, then arrange for them for that particular people. That's good. But uh, you know, right there, many more clients in need. So it doesn't matter who it is until somebody says, yep. I like it.

09:06 Okay. Well that sounds good. I'll take this under advisement and I'll take a look at your materials and then I'll get back to you one way or the other, whether I'm interested or if I want to do something different.

09:22 Sure. Don't forget to text me email because without that, I don't know where to send them all. I can't list.

09:27 I'm going to do it as soon as we're done on the phone.

09:30 Okay. Sounds good. I'll talk to you soon. Bye-bye.

---

KEY BEHAVIORAL OBSERVATIONS:
- Has existing B&B/website setup (currently not active)
- Lives in apartment, renting out extra bedroom
- Available August 1st for 6-8 months
- Wants to see sample lease agreement before committing
- Appreciates no upfront costs
- "Taking it under advisement" - careful decision maker
- Wants lease arrangement, not Airbnb-style
- Getting place ready (cleaning, rearranging)
- Open to adding Split Lease as marketing channel
