HOST CALL TRANSCRIPT: MAHESH
Date: [From original data]
Duration: ~13 minutes
Agent: Bryant
Host Type: Thorough Evaluator

---

00:39 Hello? Hi, this is my, Yeah, no, no worries. This is Brian going to be talking with you. Nice to talk to you too. Good. I'm doing well. Um, yeah. So thanks for taking the time. I'd love to just talk a little bit more. What about the space? And then if you had any questions for me, um, regarding Ariel, and I can tell you a little bit about myself too.

01:02 Um, but yeah, thanks for taking the time. Um, so like I mentioned, Ariel would be looking for, uh, basically to stay Monday to Friday, each week, uh, for when she's in the city for work. Um, and you mentioned that, uh, the place wouldn't be available until April. Was that right? Yeah. Okay.

01:27 Okay. So starting in April and then, um, the monthly rent would be 2,600? Yes. Okay. And then would there be, or what would be the amount? Um, for a security deposit. Okay. Um, I, right now I have a thousand.

01:45 Got it, got it, got it. Um, yeah, so just to, so I'm Brian, like I mentioned, and, uh, basically I work for split lease and this is how I originally got connected with Ariel. Um, and we specialize in these part of the week, each week bookings. So in Ariel's case, that's Monday to Friday and a lot of times that's how we see for people. Um, either like doing hybrid work or just needing to come into the city for work cause they live outside of the city.

02:17 Um, yeah, that's how she originally got connected with me. Um, and once again, uh, the company's named split lease and, uh, so like in terms of vetting, uh, has been vetted and went through our vetting process, uh, including like a credit check. So, uh, that's been taken care of as well. Um, we, we create the custom rental agreement, uh, and with that, so along with all like the booking details, um, that also contains the, uh, like the payment schedule to you and all the payments to our guaranteed, um, upon the signing of this agreement.

03:09 Got it, got it. And so I guess Ariel was looking for furnished. Um, what is the timeframe, as you said, it's flexible, but what is the kind of the duration of her?

03:26 Yeah, so ideally, uh, she'd be looking so she's, um, ideally looking to start with something like three months is what she had mentioned to me and really that would be to see if it was something that, um, like start with three months and then ideally extend if it was something that, uh, worked for her. Um, but yeah, starting with about three months, uh, in April is something that, uh, could work for her.

04:00 Right. Um, and if I might ask, what is Ariel doing? She, is she in the, Because she's not in the medical field? I believe it was in banking. Um, I can double check with her. I actually don't have it pulled up right now, but I can get that to you. Okay.

04:30 Okay. So, so, you know, it's great that you guys do all the credit checked and back on all that stuff. Um, I probably need that information to share with my management because they do require application.

05:05 Yeah. And what I can do is I can, um, if I can grab your email, I can basically get the account set up and then a lot of that information can just be sent to you right through there.

05:22 Okay. Yeah. And that should be fine. Um, all right. Um, yeah, that sounds good. Um, so did you have any questions for me on, on the stairs?

05:34 Um, I think for the most part, um, just to confirm some things that most of it was laid out here in the listing laundry, it looks like is, uh, in unit, is that right? Yes. Um, and then, oh, parking, uh, so the street parking, is that okay. And then there's parking pretty. I, is there any, any other additional information you could give on?

06:00 It's pretty easy to find parking, um, you know, anything is, you know, she'll have to be aware alternate side parking rules, sorry. It's once a week, um, for about an hour and a half.

07:17 Yeah. Yeah. And there may be, um, if I could I have your number so I can, if there, if there would be another question I can reach out and same to me as well, if you have anything, uh, any questions or anything like that, for me, you can always feel free to text me.

07:29 Nope, not at this point. So you guys, I've never heard of this company, I guess you I'm on your websites are, I guess you're doing experience similar to partner's Kleiner, but

07:34 Somewhat similar. Yeah. So, uh, another thing which we'll do in an Ariel's case, this could work out is as something called, um, a ghost roommate match. So in Ariel's case, she'll be in the, or she's looking for the space for Monday to Friday. And, um, there's potential that we can find someone who'd be interested in a Friday to Monday stage week, which would be this ghost roommate match that I'm referencing.

08:31 Yeah. Um, okay. I've never dealt with that kind of a situation, obviously it comes with little complications.

08:44 Yeah. Yeah. I'd be happy to answer any questions that you had on that. I know one thing that a lot of, um, a lot of hosts last about, uh, is cleaning and how that works with, with these situations. And, uh, that's just taken care of between the guests. So, uh, the guests will, um, handle cleanings themselves. And, uh, besides that final cleaning, like, uh, upon final checkout, uh, there'd be a fee, uh, which you can charge for that. And we still collect a cleaning deposit.

09:34 Um, okay. Uh, cleaning, sure. I guess more concerned for them to sort out, but how does the, how does kind of the deposit and the, you know, the security deposit, how does that get worked out or background check and all that stuff now, do I have to send most of them to, to find management company I'm here on something that I'll have to, I'll have to figure out?

10:04 So the, I guess on, on our side, the vetting would, um, the venting is something we do for all guests and that's done for anyone, uh, who would be interested in booking. And that's, like I said, done for both guests. And then in terms of payments, you obviously set, um, sort of your monthly rate and then your deposit as well. And we collect that, uh, and collect that ahead of time, um, the deposit.

10:45 Okay. So even if you're, I guess even if you are not able to find, you know, this coast or med set up, you know, I'm still getting paid, whatever first mum.

11:01 Yeah. The pay payment is guaranteed to you. Um, which once again, that's the way that that's laid out.

11:27 Okay. So, so the agreement is, is it between which we, you know, for me, at least on my side, is it with you guys or it's a, the record?

11:47 So the agreement, so Splitly creates and hosts the agreement, the agreement is between, um, either depending on if there's a ghoster mate, um, between yourself and then the one or two guests that would be, uh, staying at the place.

12:04 Um, and how would you administer? So let's say there are some issues at the end of this day, you know, there's dunno some damages to the apartment. How does the deposit get sorted out? Is that something that I would work with you or would that with the,

12:21 Um, so you would work with us and what I can do is send over some information about our host guarantee, uh, which is basically just a, um, or our host guarantee, which can cover up to a million dollars in property damage. And then as well, we have the deposit to sort of help once again, like hold as collateral.

12:53 Okay. Okay. All right. Sounds good. Yeah. Yeah. That will be helpful.

12:59 Awesome. Yeah. Any, if there's any other questions or anything like that, feel free to text me. Uh, you said you sent your email so I can follow up with that information later today.

---

KEY BEHAVIORAL OBSERVATIONS:
- Thorough and methodical - asks many detailed questions
- Has management company that requires application
- Concerned about property damage process
- Interested in ghost roommate concept but cautious ("comes with little complications")
- $2,600/month rent, $1,000 deposit
- Available April, in-unit laundry
- Interested in host guarantee (up to $1M coverage)
- First time hearing about Split Lease - comparing to Furnished Finder
- Needs to share vetting info with management
