HOST CALL TRANSCRIPT: RAMSEY
Date: [From original data]
Duration: ~17 minutes
Agent: Bryant
Host Type: Professional Airbnb Investor / Multi-Property Owner

---

00:14 Hey, this is Ramsey. Yes. Yes.

00:18 Brian going to be talking with you. Thanks for, uh, taking the time to chat.

00:23 Yeah. Yeah, man. My pleasure. Um, yeah, listen, I was delighted to get your, your message. Uh, uh, unfortunately I have, uh, I've, I've picked Dutch brothers. They actually run AI, uh, cheese shops in New York. Uh, I think they have one like on 34th street that I got a hundred pound Plaza and, um, they had to answer right back, uh, to let us a bet. And so while I had a great long-term tenant, uh, they just, they, yeah, they, they cancel.

00:53 So the apartment, I'm not sure if I had was this available today or not, but, uh, there'll be out three days of prep six. Uh, my cleaner is going to be there. I already scheduled her. Uh, normally she can come to the same day in this case, I think by the evening. So there'll be, she'll be there at seven in the morning to turn the flat.

01:18 Um, and, uh, look, I, I appreciate the, the LinkedIn bios by the way. Uh, so my, my wife works at Columbia medical. She she's up to department five physics and, um, uh, a finance guy, former investment banker. Um, we're not, I mean, we're not physically in New York right now. So, uh, during COVID we, uh, we left the city, uh, she was pregnant with our second child.

01:40 Got it. And so we lived only a few blocks away from that apartment, which is 1 74. It was, yep. We're up on 1 78, but we didn't know the effects of COVID on like an unborn. So we were in a high rise. We just got out, we went to North Carolina and we're a year and now we're down in Texas.

02:04 Um, but I had two apartments in that building. I have on a second floor, one on the fourth floor. Second floor is a doctor at pescetarian for six months and he's, he's sustaining for a year. Really nice guy. Okay.

02:16 We have another flat that is down on, um, Washington, I think by one 61st, really cool, like super modern failing two better. So we had, we had started a business around Airbnbs. We had bought apartments.com, just actually my house. Um, uh, and, uh, and so we, we struck down two of them, all, all the comp would start like larger format properties and we have this one, the building, um, doesn't stop me. I'm just giving you a quick rundown.

02:49 Thank you. Uh, the building is, uh, so it's, it's a, walk-up building. That partner is on the fourth floor. Um, it is, you know, the building's probably a hundred years old. Um, and uh, most of the residents are long time residents, but most of the residents that stay there for decades. So they grew up in the building, had some turnover, some justification, uh, that corner is, is, is quite quiet actually, because the gas then should across the street.

03:15 Um, we lived, uh, Elizabeth, my wife, we lived on one. So I think I mentioned like, you know, just four or five blocks up on the same side of the street on the east side of the street. What we found is that walking west, uh, was like this. You have a very nice neighborhood it's kind of career downtowners. We never would imagine living up there until she gets a job on 1 68, then the hospital.

03:42 Yeah. So all of a sudden ourselves accountable, it's really quite lovely to the west the east. Um, but yeah, but I, I don't, I, we never opened up a year. It's kind of, you know, we go corner to corner. We never opened up the answer in areas that we would have lived in ourselves to is, um, some way, uh, is, uh, just like a block west and then half a block north.

04:04 It's not the main entrance or the secondary entrance. That's like, it's like a minute, like a New York walking pace. That's like a minute flat. Um, but the one thing I would note, however, in the flat, uh, there's one bedroom, it's like a master bedroom. It's large it's roommates area, two windows radiated, the second bedroom, it's more of a child. Like it's, it's, it's not outdated a child bedroom, but it's clearly not the master bedroom.

04:34 Um, it still has a window installed a closet. It still has everything that the main bedroom has, but different, more compact space. The bed is the same. It's still like a queen size bed.

04:43 Um, we, by the way that the Airbnb like we do, it's still an Airbnb because if you'll reply to responses after a certain amount of time, they'll put you on the platform. So yeah, we do. Listen. I realized that the link that is in my description, wasn't working, I just wouldn't list it last night and just blocked all my dates. So if you searched by date, but if you just click the link, you'll see our property, you'll see. It's like 4.59 stars, but made sure it was really nice.

05:11 Yeah, that's it. Um, I paid, I paid the super like, uh, yeah, I was paying close, close, like a thousand bucks each year, just to be more responsive to us. Um, but that's when I was renting at a Nigeria basis and making like six grand a night, if I kicked him like 300 bucks, but he's still very responsive.

05:34 Um, even though he's, he's fairly overload, I have a cleaner and a, uh, a maintenance guy nearby in case anything's needed, doesn't come with the apartment, but if they needed or they, I figured a lot out, you know, she always has keys.

05:48 Um, and, uh, we've had no trouble with, uh, no, that's not true. We had some trouble with a leak, uh, that we, uh, something unusual for New York state park got to talk to each other, but we've fixed that. And we did the walls in the ceiling before that that's guys moved in. They've only been there for a month. Um, so I think everything is quite good shape and, uh, it's a nice place, right? It's a nice place. Uh, yeah, I I've I've yeah, I've stayed there when I go back to New York house because we gave up our own apartments. Our flats are free. I, I stay there. Yeah. So yeah, that's tobacco.

06:29 Great. Yeah. That's awesome. This is all super helpful. I know there was a couple of things that I think the one thing actually that you didn't mention, you got everything else there. All my other questions was regarding parking was the last thing I didn't see. I mentioned like, is there is street parking pretty available?

06:48 Uh, I will, I, I don't have never, I've lived in New York city. I was like, hi there, my friends that have cars are able to Parkway freely. There is, uh, unpaid street parking rec on that block, but it's, you know, it's like, uh, uh, area. It used to be like the suburbs it's really like a family area. So a lot of people have cars and there's there's every street has street hockey. Yep. Yeah. My friends, they all have like, they're special. They're like, oh my God, you're the Northwest corner of like a 1 7600 Broadway. It's fine. I don't know that stuff, but people get to, what am I going to try to have two cars? I have no idea why, but he just, he buys parking all the time.

07:35 Got it. Yeah. No, that's helpful. So unpaid, unpaid parking street, parking nearby, or sort of on the streets nearby. That's that's good to know. Yeah.

07:41 But by the way, I wouldn't represent it as unpaid parking because, um, I'm sure that that talking has a premium in terms of people's attention. So if you want to park within like a five or 10 minutes without starting to talk a hundred times pay, so I would give them a question.

08:01 Yeah. I appreciate that. Thank you. Um, yeah, so I think that that really gives me a good idea of this space and everything. And I know I sent you some information about Ariel and Amber and yeah. Specifically, they're just basically, I'll tell you a little bit about myself. So I work for a company called split lease and basically Ariel and Amber had came to us individually. And then we did, um, basically match them, uh, to be able to stay at the same place.

08:36 And then they were interested in your place, which is now, uh, why I'm coming to you. And this is all super helpful. I know they had a couple of questions about the space, which you all answered, so I'll be able to share that with them.

08:48 Um, and then, yeah, this is really, uh, I know I sent you the LinkedIn links, uh, which I had, and then, yeah. And also, uh, 2,800 was the monthly rent. Was that right?

08:57 Yeah. I know. I said like 27 99. Yeah. So yes, that includes, uh, uh, cause it's all you and pay the money to come in, damn a full apartment without,

09:15 And then, uh, the deposit, I saw a thousand dollar refundable deposit and I'll mention to you that another thing, um, as split least matched the deposit as well. Um, so that's something that, uh, we would do and we also create the custom rental agreement. So there's a customer rental agreement, which would be between yourself and Ariel and Amber. And then we have a supplemental agreement which has between yourself and split lease. And that's where our payments are guaranteed to you. So we guarantee all payments, uh, to you as the landlord.

09:47 Um, so essentially, yeah, like if something were to happen on the guest side and, uh, payment than income from them, that wouldn't be anything you'd have to worry about. Payments are guaranteed to upon, uh, the signing of those agreements.

10:02 Okay. Is it just a corporate guarantee or do you guys have a financial company that backs up the Guarantee? This is our corporate guarantee.

10:11 Okay. Is this your company? Uh, so this is, uh, I worked there. Um, I'm not like the CEO, but, uh, yeah, I work at swell at least. And I can send you, uh, I was planning if, if I could get your email, actually, I'd be happy to send you that information.

10:24 And then, um, what I can also do. So in order to, uh, have them book, I can, what I can do is basically create your listing, uh, using just the information here on furnished finder and what you told me, uh, today, which is all very helpful. I can create that for you and send that over to you as well. And essentially it would just be verifying. Um, everything looks good. It, it would all be taken from furnished finder. So, uh, everything should match should match. What's there.

10:50 I may, if you, uh, if you do fancy for any reason, look at the plot or if they do, uh, uh, you know, so the, the, the last gentleman, again, very hungry, it was with their they're willing to, you know, to show in the evening. It's not okay. Um, I get wired by a day, but, uh, but they're willing to do so if that same decision point I didn't have, the pictures are, they're actually a representation of the plan.

11:19 Yep. And, and I'll let you know. So we actually, uh, our policy is to not give out the address beforehand, um, to, to guests. And typically what we, a lot of times pictures, um, will sort of be enough in the case that a guest would want to see the space before, or would really want to, um, see the space before we have set up like live video tours as an option.

11:45 Um, but I'll, I'll let you know, Ariel or Amber haven't mentioned anything like that. They've, um, you know, they've seen the space to the pictures, so that hasn't been something that has come up, but yeah, just wanted to let you, that's something we don't share the address of the space until it would be booked by, by those guests.

12:01 Uh, can you tell me what, what's the, what, uh, how sort of they're looking to move? Cause I'm, uh, uh, you know, very strong with seeking to mitigate this kind of early termination, early contractual termination that I have with those guys, but they only stayed for a month when I was there for six.

12:24 Um, so that, that time is money, right? That's, that's a value story for sure. When would they be

12:29 So they can be flexible, like, ideally it would be, um, today if they had sort of the perfect opportunity come up, they can be flexible currently. Um, like they have solutions are basically commuting into the city and going back out as of right now. Um, so they can be flexible with that. I know you mentioned, you said the six would be the first day or maybe the day after that would be the first day it's available.

12:51 Yeah, I'd say so. Uh, Charlie, uh, Jenny would, uh, drop her shoulder at school and then go and take to one of our flags. So she'll normally be there by, let's say eight 30. Um, she is, uh, uh, very detail oriented, uh, takes about three hours to clean a two bedroom. Okay. And, um, so it's, it should be right before noon. Um, I guess Monday.

13:19 Yeah, that that's great. I mean, ideally I'll, I'll let you know Ariel and Amber there's, uh, like one or two other places that they're looking at right now, and I want to be transparent with you. Um, but yeah, they're certainly interested in your place in if in that case they were, uh, interested in going forward with you. I think, uh, starting that early would be really ideal for them. So that's something that can work.

13:43 Yep. Yeah. As a marketing component, those Airbnb reviews had seconds 4.9, nine stars, man. And we invested like, like each of the beds, it's like 1500 bucks where the brain yeah, natural light, like no lightweight. My, I went to the scientist is really vividly against any sort of, uh, uh, petroleum derivative fibers or ALS or the whole families that sound like Tesla fibers. But we did the same thing with the flats.

14:16 And also I'll say in working, I work with a lot of like host and landlords, a 4.99 Airbnb rating with 76 reviews is, is very impressive and what we can do as well as take some of those, take some of your Airbnb reviews and actually put them, um, onto, or like attach them to your listing and basically show those off because I, I understand that that is not easily done. And to be able to have that sort of reputation is something, something to show off for sure. So I can, I can actually do that as well and take some of those reviews and, and put them on, uh, on your listing.

14:54 That's great. That's great. I will, um, I may even send me a screenshot because online that rounds, the ratings, which I think would round up to 5.8 Alec side, I can see two decimal points out the worked 4.99.

15:09 Okay. Uh, yeah. So this is great. As long as you don't have, um, any other questions for me, if I could get your email and then that would, yeah. That'd be able to get started.

15:19 Okay. I will. Um, so I'll give it to you over the phone and I'll text the CISO for sure. It's spelling Ramsey. R a M S E Y. Yep. At G O C w a. So by buyers, uh, G O CWA providers. I don't know. Dot com. Okay. soRamsey@gocwa.com.

15:44 Yes. And, um, you should have an email right now. Awesome. Great.

15:52 Yep. Yep. Just got it. Thank you for that. Uh, anything else for me or any questions for me?

15:58 No, no. I'm delighted to hear from you. Um, yeah. And I'm happy to work with, with a group like you guys, whether the guarantee is, is fantastic. That's nice to have for sure.

16:11 The person who did the most damage ever to any of our apartments is my nephew. When he, uh, he wants to go to New York to throw a party.

16:20 Oh my gosh,

16:26 It's the ones closest to you. Yeah. Everyone else seems to be all right. Yeah. It was my 19 year old that Really did turn the TV off the wall. Like I have to go to parties, like, yeah. I'm like, who does, when was that? Like that this was the right course of action. I'm like, oh, that should be doesn't block.

16:51 Oh my gosh. Well hopefully, hopefully you charged him a, uh, a deposit or maybe not a damage deposit.

17:02 Yeah. I guess the rules are a little bit different with, uh, with family. You don't need to. All right. Thanks so much Ramsey. If you have any other questions or anything like that, you can text me and yeah. Much appreciated for all this information. This is, this is super helpful. Thank you.

17:19 Cool. Thank you so much.

17:21 Have a girls today. We'll see ya.

---

KEY BEHAVIORAL OBSERVATIONS:
- PROFESSIONAL AIRBNB INVESTOR - started business around Airbnbs
- Wife works at Columbia Medical (Physics dept) - he's former investment banker
- Now live in TEXAS (left NYC during COVID - wife was pregnant)
- Owns MULTIPLE PROPERTIES:
  - 2BR apartment at 174th St (4th floor walk-up)
  - Another unit at 2nd floor (doctor tenant)
  - Another flat near 161st (super modern 2BR)
- 4.99 Airbnb rating with 76 reviews - VERY IMPRESSIVE
- $2,800/month rent, $1,000 deposit
- Invested $1,500/bed (organic/natural materials)
- Pays super $1,000/year for responsiveness
- Has cleaner (Jenny) + maintenance guy nearby
- Previous tenant canceled (Dutch brothers cheese shops)
- Available in ~3 days for prep
- Concerned about early termination (previous tenant left after 1 month on 6-month agreement)
- Appreciates payment guarantee
- Street parking available (family neighborhood)
- Worst damage: his own 19-year-old nephew threw party!
