HOST CALL TRANSCRIPT: ROBBIE
Date: [From original data]
Duration: ~8 minutes
Agent: Bryant
Host Type: East Village Studio Owner

---

00:03 I just want to know, because we are receiving so many, uh, people getting these profits I've been trying to call you then.

00:18 Yep. Yeah. And if I can just tell you a little bit. So, um, I work for a company called split lease and, uh, that's how, uh, I got in touch with both Ariel and Amber. They came to us individually and then I basically matched them as roommates. Um, and that's why I wanted to call you one to learn more about the space, but then also to tell you about, uh, how the booking would work. Uh, we have a custom rental agreement, uh, that at least creates, um, and there would be a rental agreement between yourself and the guests, and then also another agreement between, uh, yourself and split lease. And that is where payment would be guaranteed to you.

01:00 Um, and, and one thing I wanted to ask, I noticed that the Craigslist link, uh, looked like it had been removed or is no longer active. Uh, would you happen to have another place where I could see, uh, the listing or another link?

01:18 Um, uh, I wanted to give you the same area, The same area, the same area? Uh, no, the, so the link to the renovated large studio in east village from Craigslist, when I click on that link, it says that it's been removed. Um, so I can't see. Yeah.

01:42 Okay. I will send you, uh, probably so I can forward you that link. I lost where the pictures.

02:00 Yep. Uh, I did, I saw, I saw the pictures earlier on the Craigslist link. Um, but like I said, I'm not able to see that anymore. Um, but I can share you, share you my email with you. I can send it to, uh, over text.

02:16 Yeah. Just send it to me over the chat to you. Okay.

02:22 Um, and then just some other things. So it sounded like it's 16, 1600 a month would be the monthly rent. Yeah.

02:37 Okay. Um, and then could you also, um, maybe give me the, uh, the location of the space as well, new when you send over the pictures?

02:49 Well, yeah, I was sending, I was sending the address on everything on the link. I'm going to send you the link of the app.

02:59 That sounds good. Um, yeah, that sounds good. And I can, um, I can follow up with some information about the rental agreement, uh, as well as the supplemental agreement that I mentioned as well. Um, did you, did you have any questions for me?

03:17 Uh, yeah. The question is, uh, uh, uh, how did you want to make the payment?

03:25 Uh, so the payments would be, um, basically they'd be made to Splitly. So Ariel and Amber would make the payments. And then upon the signing of the rental agreement, uh, payment would be released. Payment would be released to you as the landlord. Um, the first 30 nights, uh, the first payment or the payment for the first 30 nights would be given to you after the first night of the booking, if that makes sense. And then for each month thereafter, um, it would get paid to you after the first night, um, of each following month. If that makes sense.

04:06 This way, it goes, this me, where this have to be confirmed immediately. You feel the contract phone to, uh, to, to hold any property for you out loss. The contract form is, and the medical information has been received. You have to rent receipts that you will present. You'll have the information.

04:38 Yeah. And to be clear. So we have split lease has the rental agreement. So the rental agreement would be, um, created by split lease and would be between yourself and the two guests.

04:56 Uh, Ariel and Amber, the two guests that I'd reached out to about who are interested in this space.

05:03 Well, okay, then who's going to make the payment? And Amber will be making the payments. Um, and then the payment will be released to you, um, from split lease. And this is, this is outlined in the example rental agreement, which I can send over to you, uh, just as an example, but, uh, in this case with the rent being 1600, so after the first night that Ariel and Amber would stay in the place, uh, 1600 would be released to you after that first night.

05:37 And then, um, we'd hold the security deposit as well. And we'd actually matched that. So rather than holding 1600, we'd hold 3,200. And that's just something that we do, um, as split at, is matched that security deposit.

06:00 The dependence goes this way. We have to confirm the payment before we. Uh, what was that? Sorry.

06:14 I, it, I understand your explanation, but it goes this way. We have to confirm the payment immediately. The contract has been fueled. I was saying to me, you'll have to make the payment immediately. The contract is being saved. We count we can't make a reservation for you.

06:37 Yep. So we would, uh, the payment would be collected beforehand and the, the charges are pre-authorized on the credit card, uh, which is why there's the guarantee. So payments are guaranteed to you.

06:52 Um, and like I mentioned, this is outlined in the, in both of the agreements, which I can send to you. Um, and that's guaranteed, uh, from Splitly. So even in the case that Ariel or, or Amber would miss a payment, uh, you're still, uh, getting payment for the booking.

07:10 Oh, they didn't know what, uh, how many, something of the agreement you're talking about. Um, just send it to me and let me see, I'll send you my PMO. They send it to me about email. Let me take a look on it.

07:25 Yeah, that would be great. I can, um, I'll send you my email, uh, and if you can send me the, uh, the link to the place, then I can get back to you. Uh, when you email me or you can share your email as well, and I'll follow up with that information.

07:43 Okay. Sounds good. Let me know if you have any other questions you can text me whenever.

07:50 Okay. All right. Thanks Robbie. We'll see you. Yeah.

---

KEY BEHAVIORAL OBSERVATIONS:
- Has renovated large studio in East Village
- $1,600/month rent
- Craigslist listing was removed - needs new link
- Concerned about payment confirmation process
- Wants contract signed and payment confirmed immediately
- Receiving many inquiries ("so many people")
- Security deposit matched: $1,600 x 2 = $3,200 total
- Non-native English speaker
- Wants to see agreement examples before proceeding
- Traditional landlord expectations about immediate payment
