Copy of Call with Tom C guest
00:07 Hi Tom. Hi. Nice to meet you. How are you? Yeah, sorry for having to change things, things start coming up on my head.
00:21 I should have, I should have had a track. Yeah, no, it's pretty low that weeks. So yeah, for me, a little bit about yourself, I suppose you want to learn more about split lists.
00:37 Yeah. But yeah. Yeah. I mean, I do, and I think, I mean, I appreciate taking out time because I, my days are things fairly complicated.
00:47 Okay. Maybe not like, but I think that's a good job offer in my senior Manhattan. Good. And which part of Manhattan just to know a little bit about that?
01:07 Right. Sure. It's, it's a, why you still can, why you watch. Okay. Okay. Any other than what you're right in the middle.
01:14 Good. And I am still deliberating on how I want to agree. So the reason I, I am I thought I could negotiate kind of the work of three days, the office kind of arrangement with, with, when working for it.
01:37 But I'm also trying to, you know, kind of see if that makes sense because it could be that I want to stay in the, I think kind of like super commute.
01:52 I might, I would really prefer not to just like move right to your person. Yeah. That's a lot of, like the issue issues that it seems like this lot of options.
02:05 I could pursue to find a place in New York, but it's just a price point is something like, I'm like, I'm like, it's really interesting.
02:13 The idea of like part time, please, I just don't know what's, what's, what's, what's, schedule. Yeah. So the usual price range goes between 50 to $120 per night that just stay on the side.
02:31 The long, that the more nights that you select each week, the price is cheaper. What price did you have in mind just to also compare and have?
02:43 I mean, it depends, right? It's like, I was thinking like $800 to $1000 per month. It's actually conversion. Yeah. Yeah.
02:52 Okay. I was hoping that, you know, however number of nights that's the monthly budget I want to, I want to, I want to, I want to spend on like, you, you're sitting housing.
03:06 Yeah. So it seems like, you know, at $100 a night, and three days would be, that's all. Okay. Yeah. I mean, I do appreciate like, you reaching out, but it's like, it's not like I like a very specified time.
03:30 I mean, I'm just looking at the site itself, and I just wish that sometimes it was a bit more time-to-time price.
03:37 Like prices seem kind of like, I don't know when, sort of, listen to pop up, if it was like that, I don't know when, I'm the pricing key.
03:49 Yeah. No, totally. With prices, we have, we have some sort of struggles at some points, but, but yeah, in the end, the price that you see in the listing, in the page itself, the listing, that's the price.
04:05 We know that before that, it doesn't look like that clear that transparent on pricing thing for that feedback, actually. So, yeah, one of the situations or the scenarios that you are thinking about possible is that you stay on a split list with us.
04:27 For example, three to four nights per week, and then you commute back to Philadelphia, and you're going to do that every week, or it's kind of your thought.
04:36 Yeah, that's what I was hoping to explore. Okay. Okay. And on that exploration, on that idea, what will be the night that you would prefer to start to stay on, on New Year?
04:49 Oh, I see. I should, yeah. I need to be in the office of what, so I was thinking like to stay one day, or a month, eight to Thursday, do you stay one day, Thursday?
05:03 Okay. So between two hundred nights. Right, yeah. I think that. Okay. And are you kind of flexible on location? I mean, you mentioned that it's near the NYU.
05:22 Yeah. I don't know. Right. That's like, I think this is where I have to talk to other people, I know what neighborhood.
05:30 Yeah. But, you know, like, I mean, I mean, I mean, the whole point is that like, I don't mind staying in like a little room.
05:39 If that means if that means I'm exploring to the family. Good. Like, what I am worried about, yes, I'm just like, if I want to like move my time, everything, I could probably find that I can do work, but that's not really my first choice.
06:00 Yeah. Yeah. It's a lot to change just by one. Okay. Okay. And what else? So, do you have another thing in mind about the site that you dislike?
06:14 Do you mention about the transparency of pricing, which is a huge and great feedback plan? Do you have any other thing?
06:23 Yeah. It's just like, I'm looking at a site right now and it's always like two things. But I don't think that's got, like, screwed up with a search engine.
06:29 So, you should be listening. Yeah. The last time I checked, it was like six. So, like, I mean, there were issues like that spot.
06:37 Right. Yeah. I think the main issue I had was that I'm not sure how the content is. Because it seems like I'm a budget supplement and I haven't been able to find listings in Brooklyn for three years.
06:53 Yeah. Yeah. Manharan, we have more. We have a couple of listings in Brooklyn. I can share those with you personally.
07:00 I mean, personally, because as you saw, yeah, some of the search engine right now is broken. So, that's why you only can see three listings.
07:09 But I have them, covered the ones that we have on Brooklyn. So, let me share those with you in order to, yeah, you can also compare there if you like those.
07:19 Okay. So, yeah, I think I kind of understood your situation and all the options you have in mind. So, and your budget.
07:32 Okay. Okay. I will see more listings and see what I can do for you. Yeah. I think I will just like, feel free to economy by email because I know that you work is just that, like, New York gets always on rotation.
07:47 And I think the point is is that I don't have my job question to my, I don't have this burden to my.
07:53 Like, I would do the nice if I have like some kind of like deal in my pipeline. Yeah, definitely. Yeah.
07:57 It's like, just literally just like, don't make it seize. I don't mind waiting a month to really get signed. So, I think just the next two ones, if you're willing to do this, please, please, please be kind of safe.
08:14 Yeah, definitely. Definitely. I will keep sharing with you. Sorry. Last question. So, do you guys charge a pro-profit fee for this stuff?
08:23 Oh, yeah. I haven't decided of anything. Okay. Yeah, I don't know. We don't charge a broker fee itself is the, the prices that you are seeing on the listing.
08:35 They have already our, our makeup, our, yeah, our profit. Yeah. I don't want to, you know, like, yeah, I just want to make sure that you have fees.
08:48 Yeah, no, no, no, there's no fees with the price that you are already paying. We have to that price added what the whole set and our market.
08:58 Gonna see. Sure. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. So I think that's all that I need from you in order to start looking more listening for you and help you more.
09:09 Yeah. You have more questions or anything to add. Maybe, especially need that you want to prefer or something. Yeah. I mean how often do you like, is there like a requirement that I should like meet in person or like see it for myself or a sign?
09:31 No, no, we don't have that, but, but you can, we have the structure of E meeting. So we can coordinate an E meeting between, yeah, between you, the host and us.
09:45 So there all the questions that both sides may have can be resolved. And also you can see the place and the host like the real one.
09:56 Yeah, which is important for you. My way, I can definitely make my way over and like, you know I can go to my hand if I have to.
10:05 It's on, it's on, it's on. Okay. Okay. I'm really, really excited to see how it works. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Definitely.
10:14 Okay. Good question. Yeah. So I think that's, let's see. Yeah. Okay. No, but this is good. I, I, I do appreciate this.
10:23 Yeah. The show. Me too. But let's just email just, it clearly says stuff my way. I'll check the site too.
10:30 And maybe the next like week or two, I'll start. Thanks. Sorry. Because good right now, are they even changing to my pieces?
10:42 Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You can see there are places that will be available on July. Yeah. Okay. Sure. Yeah. Okay.
10:49 That's, yeah. Yeah. I appreciate this. So let's, let's, let's, let's, no. Yeah. Really. I appreciate it too. Well, thanks. Okay.
10:58 Great. All right. Yeah. Thanks again. Will send you some listings and keep, keep, keep, keep in touch. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
11:06 Bye. Thanks.
