Customer call: Tom
0:01 Alright, this is a customer call with Tom that I've set up and I'm going to give him a call now.
0:34 Hey Tom. This is lane from Craigslist. How are you? Good, Thanks. Um, so I was looking over the email that you sent.
0:42 Um, it looks like you are a student looking for a Monday through Thursday split, at least in Harlem. Yes, exactly.
0:49 I go to school in a city college, so. Okay. Um, when would you want this to start Good at the end of January, please?
1:01 The last week of January or first week of February. Okay. Okay. Um, I'm looking at Murray's listing. It says on here that her place is not ready until may, but a lot of times things change and they don't update their listings.
1:15 So I'm going to reach out to her and see if hers is a possibility, but I also managed a bunch of other places and some are also in Harlem.
1:23 Um, would you be interested in hearing about other places if, if, if Murray's doesn't work out? Yeah, it wouldn't be actually, yes, it would be like a Monday through Thursday.
1:32 Uh, you tell me, um, the people we represent, um, prefer these kinds of split leases where, um, someone takes weekends or weeks or weeks of the month.
1:41 Um, so tip and, uh, we do a lot of, uh, you know, leases with professors and students who just, who want to be in the city and don't need to be in the city every day, you know?
1:53 Yeah. Cause, um, I live in Jersey right now and I don't want us to come back from. Great. Um, and you would want an entire space or just a bedroom.
2:11 Okay. Hopefully in a one room. I wouldn't want to, like in a four bedroom, I would prefer like, you know, something like that.
2:22 Okay. So now, yeah, I don't know a lot of four bedrooms in Harlem. My friend is standing at one right now and it's like too much.
2:32 Oh yeah, yeah, no, although I say that, but I did it in college too. Um, so you'd be looking for, uh, end of January 1st week of February through may, end of may or June early, June pretty, Um, my last, uh, well, I, it and the medically, the last week of may, so, you know, unless us, we may.
3:02 Okay. Um, and you, uh, your budget, I want to say like a hundred and like that 1100, you said. Okay.
3:18 So if you're looking for, sorry, this is my calculator. That's three week divided by four nights. So you're looking about $68 a night.
3:32 Okay. That gives me a really good, um, idea of good places to put you in. Um, okay. So I'm going to reach out to Marie and double check and see if hers is available any sooner, um, and get back to you with that.
3:49 And there, um, if she does, if it is indeed booked until may I look at other places in Harlem that are private rooms or have fewer roommates, um, um, I might have my colleague Brian, reach out to you.
4:03 He's the one who's really good with logistics in terms of like schedules. Um, so if you got a call from Bryant, that is also, that is completely legit and also me Bryant.
4:16 Uh, but he will mentioned my name is that that'll be the secret password to know that you're not getting some random calling.
4:24 Um, and if you can think of anything else or have any more questions, you can always text me. Um, we, you know, like this is, I think it's ideal for a lot of students, especially who want to get out of the city on weekends.
4:37 So, um, I, myself or Brian we'll be in touch shortly. Um, it's all depends on when he gets back to me.
4:47 Um, so it I'd love to, I would love to get back to you tonight, but chances are, it'll be in the next day or two So much.
4:58 Thank You. Have a good night. Have a good one. Bye.
