Customer call- Vince
0:04 Hi, Vince. Hey, glad we could connect. Yeah, he as well. Sorry about this. Oh man. No problem. Um, I just wanted to talk to you for a little bit.
0:17 I know your schedule was kind of not figured out yet. Um, so I wanted to get kind of an idea of what you would need and how we can best suit you.
0:26 So you're starting a new job. Yeah, yeah. Uh, near the financial district in New York, You go to an engineering job right now.
0:39 You know, I'm still waiting on them to make things official on the days I would have to be into the office probably going to start off as two, but eventually hopefully get down to one.
0:49 But, um, I think even if it was one, am I still need two nights there just to have a comfortable Workday, maybe the next morning, you know, back to Connecticut.
1:02 Um, so where, where the is the apartment located? Um, the one you reached out about is in Nolita, it looks like it's between, um, right on Mulberry.
1:19 And, um, I can't tell what that cross street is. Um, so how, you know, I've never done something like this.
1:33 How does this work like is, uh, like there's a full kitchen in there, you know, are you splitting it with like a hotel, like multiple, multiple people, multiple people throughout the week where you clean everything out and you go home or what?
1:48 So th we're kind of a new service. Um, but at least as a company that specializes in exactly what you're looking for, like hybrid living solutions.
1:55 So if you need two nights a week, um, and you know exactly what your day is, those are every week, um, that's the easiest way to do it.
2:04 Um, and you would have the space a hundred percent yours when you're there. Um, you'd have a ghost roommate when you're not there.
2:10 Someone who would live in the space when you're not there, that you would never share this space. Um, and you're able to like kind of store your stuff in between stays so like toiletries and monitors and whatever you need there.
2:20 Um, it's kinda nice to be able to, you know, feel like home every time you're there. Um, so typically, yes, we'd match you up with someone with a complimentary schedule, so the place would be occupied, but you would only be responsible for obviously for your nights.
2:38 Um, do you know when you want to start the arrangement? Um, you know, it, I was supposed to have a call with them tonight.
2:45 Uh, lastly supposed to be like four weeks out. Um, and that was like at the end of last week. So I don't know if it's still four weeks or if I'm getting close to three weeks because, uh, just, they're not communicating well right now.
2:58 Um, but so if I had to guess it'd probably be something around four weeks out from now. Okay. That's great.
3:04 Um, and just ongoing, or did you have a certain end date in mind? Um, no. It's permanent job. Um, so it's, yeah, it's current situation or the ongoing.
3:17 And do you think they'd be the same nights you need every week? Um, yeah, that would be like all that make it easiest for me.
3:25 And I just kind of talked to them about that there are certain weeks or certain times of they might have, it might be out of my control, but for the most part, I'm hoping beginning of the week, like Monday, Tuesday, Monday, Tuesday nights.
3:42 Great. Um, I haven't, I, uh, we market the space for Brenda, but I haven't talked to her in a couple of weeks.
3:52 If this one isn't available. Are you open to other locations if they're close to the financial district? Yeah. Yeah, I wouldn't be, um, that's just, yeah.
4:02 Okay. Um, is there anything, do you need like a parking space or a, to bring a small dog or something?
4:08 Is there any amenities that you're, that are, um, deal breakers for you that you need? Uh, I don't think so.
4:13 Obviously having a kitchen, um, I've seen some places where they only really, you know, have something to cook. Uh, so as long as it has a kitchen, Easy enough, everything we work with is a kitchen.
4:27 Yeah. I be surprised when we work out there, I heard an MTR. There is a, there is a place with four toilets in the bathroom, like no dividers, just four toilets who it's four toilets in a bathroom.
4:38 Anyway. Uh, what is the rate book like? You know, how much would this cost? So obviously it would depend on how many nights you need.
4:51 Um, and I'd have to get back to you. I can get back to you with the exact cross streets and how much, um, two nights would be.
4:58 Um, it's saying about one 13 at night, but I think it would be, um, I would guess it would be lower for two nights.
5:06 Okay. Uh, is there, is there a times when I could just do one night a week, like if after six months or two months by schedule changes from just going in once a week and I could make the work, uh, is that too little on your end to have me sending just once a week, It kind of depends on who we match you up with.
5:25 Um, it's definitely possible. And you can also your ghost roommate, like there, um, through our, the company is called Splitly it's and through our app, once you're in a, um, a rental agreement, you can actually change your dates on the flat using the app.
5:39 So if your roommate wanted to buy a night from you or you wanted to buy a night from them, that's entirely doable as well.
5:45 Like we, we understand that everyone has, you know, schedule uncertainty. Right, right. Okay. Um, so let me see if I can get a nightly price for two nights, a we'll start there.
5:58 And if things change in the meantime, and when you hear back from your company, you can also reach out and let me know.
6:03 Um, I might have my colleague reach out to you cause he's better with like the calendar. I like talking to the people and he's, he's much, he's much better.
6:11 Like if there's a financial risk, they need this place or this place. And, um, but I'll reach out to Brenda and see about the, um, studio in Nolita.
6:18 Cause I think that's a really nice space. Um, but knowing that it's about four weeks out and then, um, you're thinking Monday, Tuesday, and if that changes, let me know.
6:27 Um, but I will have myself or someone get in touch with you shortly. Okay. Actually, I'm sorry. I'm thinking about it.
6:34 Uh, I think what I mean is Sunday, Monday, I'm supposed to be in the office Monday, Tuesday. So I think the nights I want to stay might be something like that.
6:43 Oh, perfect. Okay. Sunday, Monday. Yeah. Sorry. It's hard to say like thinking of the Daisy need with the backing up to the nights that isn't completely understandable.
6:56 Sunday and Monday nights. Um, okay, great. Well, good luck getting all this worked out on your side and I'll get the wheels turning on our side and hopefully we can make this, you know, find a great spot for you.
7:12 Thank you so much. You too. Bye-bye.
