Frederick's Customer Call with Valerie
00:05 Hello? Hello. Hi, Bernard is Frederick from Gregory. How are you? Yeah. Awesome. Great. So yeah, I wanted to have this call with you in order to understand you better and ask you a few questions.
00:22 Uh, but yeah. Okay. Can you start just telling me a little bit about yourself? Um, yeah, Sure. So I live on an island, um, and I will be working as a traveling social worker in one of my lectures hospital for three months.
00:40 So that's why I was looking for places sort of close, you know, around Queens and stuff. Um, but I, my primary home is here.
00:47 So like usually on most weekends I would be coming back here. Um, so I would just need it for like Monday through Friday, unless, like I said, I think I said this in the email, but like, there might be one or two weekends where I would wind up needing to be there, but might not.
01:03 It wouldn't be consistent. Yeah. You share it. You share that, that you will need a place for Monday to Friday, the weekdays and weekends, your Wednesday on your home.
01:13 Uh, that means that you will regularly leaving on Friday morning, right. Regularly, Right? Yeah, Friday morning. But, um, there's a chance.
01:25 Like I would stop by after work on Friday. I forgot something or something like that. Like, you know, so I would work Friday morning and then I would, it's on my way back home.
01:35 So I may have to stop if I don't get it packed. Um, how, how are you considering the, like the sharing the time you think The what?
01:50 Sorry, I didn't understand you there. Do you also live in that apartment as well? No. No. I'm not getting the place for, for the whole Ellen Ellen.
02:02 Oh, okay. Let me, because I'm making the description. It said like you, you would want someone who splits the time.
02:08 Yeah. Split the time, uh, by split the time. I mean, uh, this like part-time, you are just using the weekdays and not the whole week.
02:18 That's what I mean by During the weekend Probably. Yeah, not me, but maybe another guest is staying during the weekend.
02:28 Yeah. Oh, I see. Okay. Yeah. So, but, uh, if, if, uh, storage or security is a concern that you have, uh, there's no problem because you have, uh, storage for yourself.
02:42 Um, and it's private, so you can enter, Sorry, what, Where would I put all my things when they come in the other person?
02:56 Yeah. But you'll, you'll have a locker for years for your things. Okay. So essentially like every weekend when I leave, um, I would have to sort of put everything away though.
03:12 Yeah. You can do that. Or you can trust probably those are the options, but yeah. Yeah. Um, okay. So let me see.
03:28 Oh, you also share that you will start using the place from December to January, right? The first December. Yeah. December to January, or I would do it from January to March Or from January to March.
03:44 That's good. Okay. Okay. So every weekend, so, cause I assume like if another guest comes, it would have to be like very, very clean, right?
03:53 Like how would that work? Like with me, like living there would, if somebody's coming to clean it or would I have to make sure it's like perfect every time I leave.
04:02 Yeah. Yeah. So, uh, that's a good question actually, because that's, um, I'm going to tell you that I work for a company called split lists and we, we market this kind of places, this kind of listings to find, uh, guests like you that more local or they just need part-time of the, of the week for the state.
04:26 And we arrange the cleaning, uh, the cleaning thing between the host and the guests and the guests that are involved.
04:36 So yeah, that's something that we will discuss later, but yeah, probably each guests need to clean their stuff. Okay. Got it.
04:47 Got it. And then guess would be permanent, like permanently on weekends? No, probably not. Uh, it depends out of the other guests that we confined.
04:57 I want to share with you the name of the, of the company so that you can take a look at the website as well, platelets and okay.
05:07 Let me go to that. This call is actually to understand better your situation because we have, we have many other listings and maybe if this one is not available right now, I yesterday I reach out to LN to save it.
05:23 This listing is available and she has sent con she has an answering me back. So, uh, Yeah, that that's, that's boring.
05:38 Yeah. Yeah, totally. That's what you don't want sharing. Well, okay. So I wouldn't mind a sharing if it was like one consistent person, but I also feel like it would be a lot of work, so, okay.
05:51 So, because I live in Staten island, it's actually very strenuous to go back and forth. I'm only doing it for the job, but then if I have to go back and forth, but also have to make sure everything is clean and worry about like my things, I feel like it would be like, I would feel like I'm moving every single week, you know?
06:08 Um, so I, I like, it might be a little too stressful in that case, especially if it's a different person.
06:14 So I can't even really get to know them. Um, The way the listing, what I thought I'd be sharing it with the host.
06:23 So I thought it would be like, just me and the other person. Like I thought it'd be a little bit simpler.
06:27 Yeah. We have some listings that are that way. So I can look for one that is that way for you.
06:33 Uh, I don't know what else. Okay. So yeah. Okay. So I don't, I also don't mind sharing with someone else.
06:46 It's their own room. I'm just sharing the apartment, but the, we have our own room or whatever like that. Yeah.
06:55 Yeah. You will have your own room. That that's benefit. Okay. All room. Good to know. So yeah, I CA as, uh, as I was telling you, I can look for a listing for you that are similar to this one in terms of price, range and location.
07:13 So are you, are you open or flexible in terms of location budget, or do you have something already set for you?
07:22 I've kind of already said, um, it doesn't have to be close to long island Jewish. So in like the Queens area, maybe like, I would say the farthest is like flushing or Jamaica, like that range.
07:34 Okay. Um, and do you have any budget, any particular budget? I would say around five, 1500 a month. Around what?
07:45 Sorry? 1500 A month. Okay. 1500 a month. And I would prefer it if it's fully furnished because it's so short-term Yeah, yeah.
07:57 It's, it's totally furnished already. Okay. So let me see if I have any other question. Do you have any questions so far for me apart of the, So your agency is your agency deal with this, like with people who want their apartments, you know, to, to give to other people like that?
08:21 Or you can just send me a link of your agency who like, Sorry, I lost you. Sorry. Sorry. It's okay.
08:30 You could send me a link of your agency. Yeah. I can send you the link to the website. It's not an agency is, uh, a company called split this and yeah.
08:46 Let me send you the link. Let me send you the, Well you get back to me. Yeah, I will. I will come back to you with more listings to share, uh, with the, the information that you just gave me.
09:02 It's, uh, really helpful to help me help you find the listing. And, and yeah. So let me check one more time.
09:14 You need a place from, uh, 1st of December to 1st of January or from January to March. I just do to make it easier to just do a January 1st to more.
09:26 Okay. Okay. That's perfect. Yeah. Great. We can do that way. And you will need a place from Monday to Friday.
09:33 Uh, some, some weeks you may have, uh, you may need Friday to stay as well. Um, Because the thing is that, like, I, that's why it might get complicated, but like I would probably come back Sunday night That I can go to work in the morning.
09:52 Okay. Some late nights. That's great. Okay. Maybe come back Sunday night. Uh, that's something that we can arrange as well.
10:02 Uh, would you consider? Yeah. So do you have, if you have, if you don't have any more question, I can start looking more or less than for you.
10:13 And, and if, if Ellen come back to me, I would share that with you and see if we can arrange with Ellen or with a different holes.
10:21 It's okay. Okay. Thank well since you for taking the time. Um, and yeah, thanks. I'm going to do that as soon as they can sense by Okay.
10:45 So this is.
