Shomit Ghosh - 8 April 2022
00:09 Yeah. <inaudible> Hello? Hi. Hi, Mr. Caught. No, no problem. No problem. Hey, good to, good to hear you. So, uh, you responded to our ad for the apartment was, uh, uh, six weeks, Monday.
00:42 So, so as the, that is your preferred schedule, the, you would need the, to for longest six weeks or just fixed six weeks maximum?
00:53 No, it's not a maximum, but, uh, six weeks is like, uh, cause that's what I know for now. Right. And then maybe more after that.
01:03 I see. Okay. That sounds fine. And you did ask me a question how much it will cost if it is six weeks, Monday.
01:11 So source day, which means Monday night, Tuesday night, Wednesday night. And so C, C nights or four nights. That's the key question you want to, uh, have seen nights Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, where you want four nights, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, and leave Friday morning.
01:36 Um, probably leave Friday morning. Yeah. So, Okay. Because, uh, was that changes the price I had to come Monday nights.
01:53 You want me to just one second. Um, So you want four nights, uh, four nights will be get $66 per night And that is including all taxes fees.
02:29 So it's total. So this is upper west side, right? Is that particular one? Yes. Is upper west side. Are you, uh, are you interested only in upper west side or are you also thinking as a options might be also an interest for you?
02:50 Yeah. Other options are good. I like the upper west side, but it's not the only place. I mean, there's other options that might be good to know about.
02:59 Okay. In that case, let me just a quick explain you how's this work to make sure we all the same page.
03:10 Uh, we as a split, listen Splitly so the marketplace somewhat similar to Airbnb, but we services that people who are coming, they turned them back to the same property multiple times.
03:26 And, uh, that's the way it works. Uh, the two people who, uh, acting sort of like ghost roommates when, uh, I was, I split the lease.
03:39 Somebody takes like UI interested to take Monday to Friday. Somebody else's interested to take Friday so Monday. So the same space is used by different people, uh, in different types.
03:53 So what that does is makes it the full time lease for the, uh, owner of the property. And, uh, that allows us to save you money because you don't have to pay short term rental fees, uh, extra tasks is it holds no, uh, other stuff.
04:15 So the cost for you is significantly less everybody enjoys comfort of coming to the same home, the need to cause a star falls at times.
04:29 So that's pretty much covers how's that works. So we mentioned two people who will share was a total list and matches that pad with the landlocked.
04:45 Okay. Where does that other person go? Uh, well that as a person uses the same space as the time when you know that.
04:58 All right. So I mean, I guess that's fine. I mean, it doesn't really matter to me. Well, I guess that's fine.
05:05 And it just is something that's distract me because, uh, I did live in New York for a long time. That's where I work, but I'm not there.
05:15 Full-time so it's hard to justify getting an apartment also, as you imagine, it's expensive. Right. And that's why we're trying to service guys like you to give you a valuable option.
05:29 So you can have an apartment and not to pay the full price for that apartment pay only for what you need.
05:37 Okay. I listened. I have, uh, I guess like a few, this is good, right? Except for like one or two things.
05:44 Right. And so I plan to be there. This is like the six week thing. I mean that wouldn't be probably good on a regular basis, maybe starting in the next few weeks.
05:56 Right. But next right. Uh, I will be in New York on Friday, uh, and I'll be there. So that's the, I believe the 15th We'll be there.
06:07 We'll be there for a week, April 15 to 22nd. But I mean, This is not this kid. This is not the cutout.
06:16 So it's not, if you need to arrive on some ad that day and, uh, do sins, which are not on that schedule Z, this is not that opportunity.
06:28 Basically. This is an opportunity for people who are saying, okay, I have reasonably logged in enough time. If you need, let's say next week you might still use a hotel or some other option though, air BNB until we close this list and the, you have the space for the six weeks going forward.
06:52 So, Okay. So how's this I can, uh, like I, I, uh, is it possible to see the unit? Is that allowed?
06:59 Uh, yeah, it would be. So, uh, first of all, what I'd like to do, if you don't mind, I don't believe I have your email address.
07:10 So would you please share with me your email address? S H O T G H O S H. The number one, gmail.com Shawmut gross one as you know about.
07:34 Okay. So what is going to happen? I am going to establish for use, uh, uh, please set a account on our website.
07:48 You will receive a link to be able to see, not only is this property, but multiple properties. If you like as a bull parties, as well as this one, I would suggest entering the beat for this property.
08:04 Uh, if, uh, if you want to, as a pop artist as well, you can enter as a bead. Also, what happens is a bead is not Samsung, which obligates you to lease it.
08:18 It's your expression of interest for certain properties. So we encourage to have cl four bids in parallel to make sure is that, uh, when we started mentioned, you was as a people who are interested in mentioned schedules, we can find some sync which works for you and zap.
08:44 So, uh, if you try that or on your own, or I would be happy to walk you through, it's one of those things which always available and kind of, you can see our service.
08:58 So I would, I would offer you any help you need to be able to do since with us and hopefully to finish it with a satisfactory lease, which you'll find you will enjoy is a place in New York.
09:18 How's that sound All of this sounds good. Right? I mean, it doesn't solve my question for next week, but that's fine.
09:25 He started in may. That might be better for me. Um, and yeah, so I guess, uh, you know, it sounds good, but I have some more questions, right?
09:36 So other properties good. I mean, I live upper west side. There are a lot of good places to work. Um, if, if it was longer than six weeks, uh, or if it was a different number of days, three versus four, does the per day rate change?
09:56 Yes, it does. It depends on how many days you ask for, and it's not per day, it's been a night.
10:04 So it's very important to understand that because it's, if you are saying Monday through Friday, you're taking the possession of the place.
10:17 Let's say Monday at one o'clock and uh, you have to leave it Friday by noon. If it is Monday's mothers or source day, I'm sorry, Monday.
10:29 So stress day, because it's means source denied. It says day two, five. So four nights we'll give you Monday from one o'clock until four.
10:41 I didn't know. So if you go for five nights, it would be a little cheaper. If you go for last nights, it would be a little more expensive.
10:54 So it was, the price is dynamic based on the number of nights and number of weeks, which you select. So when you go on the website, you will be able to see that you can enter different.
11:09 You select the property, you have selection of nights. So you can say this is a nighttime interest to them. And, uh, it's not only on the number of months, it's also on the, which nights you will be selected.
11:26 Let's say, for example, you would select that you would need, uh, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday, Sunday, and Saturday, Sunday leaving Monday and Tuesday, that would be more expensive than taking Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, because it leaves a two days not paid, which is difficult to it.
11:55 If it makes sense for you. Yeah. So, but you can play with that on the website and it will give you all options dynamically.
12:05 So you can see that. And if, by some reason, something will happen and you cannot achieve what you need. You always can text me or email me.
12:18 And, uh, I will be Muslim happy to help it for help you to do that. So for example, would you like me to enter for use a bead for Mondays to serve as the, was that place?
12:32 Which you like, No, I want to see what the other options are. And also, I'm not sure if when I would start, Uh, okay.
12:41 The Sasha sub summit. Yeah. Shawmut <inaudible> Charlotte. Okay. I'm sorry for butchering it. So Shawmut, what, uh, what I want to repeat again, that your bead is not a blood gate in you, two signs, at least be this, just an expression of interest.
13:11 So do not afraid to enter, see, or four or five bids, because at the end of the day you will sign the lease only as the one, which you like.
13:23 Okay. Right. It's good to know. I'll still hold off. See the other ones. Right. I mean, it's good to know because, so let's say I get it right.
13:33 I know I'm not committed to moving forward until I signed the lease. Yeah, yeah. Basically let's say you, Anthem's a beat and your aunt does a B, and then we start the purchase of matching you with the Mazda person who hasn't mentioned schedule.
13:52 If we find that person at that moment, we will create for you emitting. So you will meet on zoom that person, and you will talk to the tourist.
14:05 So you will be able to say, I am comfortable or not comfortable with the other person who is going to use it to a party when you're not there.
14:18 And all that. After two of you comfortable with the lease and then produce to the landlord. So Andy, Anthony is a being, does not obligate you to anything.
14:30 And even when we create the lease until you actually signs the lease, you're not obligated to. So that was, this is only, this is, this is only a search poetess, which allows us dynamically to service multiple people to be able to find this matches.
14:53 Okay. Okay. So yeah, I mean, to send you the information, I will look at it, uh, with something that might be good for me in the spring or summer.
15:04 So like courtship Sure. It's usually takes two or three weeks to finish the process and get Lisa. So it's not an immediate tomorrow.
15:15 It's not a BNB. So, uh, anyway, I appreciate your time. I got the, uh, one more question. If you don't mind, you don't have to answer that, but it will, if you do, it will help me to, uh, find parties, which you like, do you have a budget per night, which you'd like to stay within?
15:42 If you'd like to say any number you can, if you don't that's okay. No pressure. And just helps me to be able to isolate the properties.
15:55 Yeah, I do. Right. I guess, I guess mainly I think of this per month and then I break it down per night.
16:02 So, Uh, So the, Ah, how much you're spending months. So let's say if it is four weeks, four nights per week and the total per month, how much I can tell you the number, the reason why is because when I look in our apartment, right?
16:19 I mean, if I get sad, I've had many leases I've rented in New York for a long time. I think go, like, what kind of place would I rent for myself?
16:28 Right. Probably below 2,500 a month is what I would usually spend if I were to lease a place alone. Right.
16:35 But this is different because I mean, it's only a portion of that. Right. It's also it's furniture. It's not mine.
16:41 So yeah, I understand that the costs more, but I would say approximately one 50 or less I would be happy with, but I wouldn't be surprised it once.
16:51 Okay. One 50 or less per month. Let's that's fair. Basically. I will, I will not send you myself and your son, which is more than one 50, Because we have purposes, which are two 50 per month.
17:07 So it just depends where, you know Yeah. When you're talking nice. Yeah. I'm talking nice neighbor who was in, when you start talking about two bedrooms and they just climbs up.
17:24 Okay. Okay. It was very nice to chat with you. And like I said, do not hesitate to call or email if you need, if you have any questions or need kale and you will see those, that email will come from split lists, which will give you a link to your account.
17:44 All right. That sounds good. Okay. Thank you so much. Bye bye-bye.
