Sophie Charvet - 18 April 2022
0:03 Sorry. Sorry about that. No problem. No problem with I you're in the place where you can talk right now. Yeah.
0:14 But if you hear me okay. So that's all whatsoever. Yeah. That's great. Yeah. So, so tell me about your arrangement through the apartment.
0:26 Is it just one apartment? Okay. Let me, let me ask you a couple of questions because, uh, I need to, uh, understand how I can help you the best, because you mentioned something because you need it almost next week and, uh, zap something too quick.
0:45 I don't think we can help you with anything, um, before like three weeks. So is that the minimum commitment we require is minimum six weeks after that?
1:00 Is that something which is going to work for you? Ah, it's a minimum of six weeks for the rental. Is that okay?
1:09 Um, no. So this is, uh, this was just, uh, for the month of may actually. Um, And, And, uh, yeah, it could have been flexible for earlier than that, but not, not beyond, uh, the end of may, unfortunately.
1:25 So I see. Yeah, that's unfortunate that we cannot help you. It's I'm sorry if you ever need something in this type of arrangement, but it was a little more lead time.
1:38 We'll be happy to help you, But Let me just, let me just tell you a little bit about our service, because you might find it helpful in future.
1:53 Basically I work for split list and we, uh, uh, doing, uh, uh, assistance for people who need, uh, usually it's commuters who need the repeated schedule on partial weeks or partial months.
2:10 Um, the, the way we do it with the two people was complimentary schedule. So let's say for example, somebody needs Monday through Friday and somebody else needs Friday.
2:22 So Monday they become, goes to amaze, which use the same space, but in different timeframes. So they don't interfere with was a chisel.
2:33 And the, it becomes at least who is a landlord of two mites. So it's a sea Whaleys that's how would I put it?
2:42 So if, if you sense that you might be interested in that in future, uh, what I would suggest, if you could share with me your email address, I'll send you a link.
2:55 So you could see as a website and see <inaudible> and decide if it can be helpful for you in future. Okay.
3:07 Um, I know this, this was just for a family member who was visiting me in New York for a ma. So I won't read that myself.
3:19 It sounds like a good thing you have. Yeah. We are trying to help people. So if you're not interested, that's good.
3:26 No problem. I wish you luck findings a spot for your system. And I wish you a quick recovery. Forbes is a period.
3:35 You'll have to go soon. So I, unfortunately, I went, so it was a similar assume myself so I can understand what you're going.
3:45 Yeah. Yeah. Well, yeah, you too. Bye-bye.
