Stephen Petronio - 1 June 2022
0:04 Uh, Hey Steven, Steven Show. I am. Hey Robert, how you doing? Good. Where are you in the city? Are you aware?
0:26 Are you, Uh, I'm like now in Michigan, but uh, that's the little Amantha so duke have couple minutes so we can chat.
0:38 I am right now in Michigan. Oh, okay, cool. Great. Yeah. I'm actually not sure what else. Okay. So, uh, I work for the company, which is called split list, and we are actually serving some people who need to come to the city on frequent occasions.
0:58 Somebody does business days like you do. Somebody does, uh, uh, weekends only. And, uh, we have a lot of demand.
1:07 And when you responded to our ad, I would like to chat with you and see if you would be willing to work with us and consider our guests to Be no, It will be the same person every time It was, It would be the same person every time, the way we operate.
1:30 We usually, when we locate the match like you, and as a person, we would introduce you via zoom. So you guys can chat and make sure that you're comfortable with each other.
1:43 And if that happens, we will draft the lease. It would be a future lease. We actually facilitate all of that.
1:52 So our site and the do all the collection, those payments, since you are the host, we will be paying you for also stays on a regular basis.
2:05 Usually we do it in the four week increments. So we pay upfront. So if the state starts, we'll pay you for four weeks next four weeks, next four weeks, next four weeks as it expired.
2:21 And we given T uh, guests were <inaudible>. So if, because we collect the payment, if guests doesn't pay, it's really not your problem.
2:32 It's my problem. I pay you no matter what, until the lease expires. So that's how I feel it. So if you, uh, would be curious enough to consider our sites, I would like to get your email address.
2:50 I have your phone, I have your name. And with that, I can send you my introductory information. I can send you a link to the site, to Evelyn's however, who works.
3:01 Zay. Again, if you would like to move with us, I would need some information about your studio so I can make, create a listing on the site and presented to people who already contacted me for this type of arrangement.
3:19 Oh, the check. Can you tell me the name of the service again? Split list. If you type it in Google Split Split S P L I T least T T a stomp.
3:37 Yeah. If you type it on Google, our link comes to the first. Okay. Well, let me give it a look.
3:45 And if I think it's right for me, I will call you back. Right? Well, that sounds great, Steven. I appreciate your time.
3:52 I appreciate your consideration. Uh, if you have any questions, feel free to call me, text me, whatever I am, your contact.
4:01 And my, my job is to make your experience with us. Good. So, Perfect. All right. I appreciate it. Thank you.
4:12 Okay. Thanks. 
Stephanie B - 7 June 2022
0:14 Hi, Stephanie, this is Robert from Craigslist, Hawaii, pretty busy, but that's comes with the territory. That's some bad about it.
0:27 Hey, uh, I understand that you're working for the place to rent four business days. Okay. Yes, that's right. We're a, um, actually we live in Monroe, um, but we also, we need to live in the city for half the week.
0:48 So, um, yeah. So w what, uh, uh, is a limitation on the area because the place which you responded for, uh, unfortunately there is a, a lady rented, but I have several other options which I might offer you.
1:05 So as a limitation on the area, I have it now a couple options in, uh, Washington Heights. And, uh, I have, uh, another one in, uh, south Carlin.
1:21 We really, we need to be in either the upper west side or the upper east side, because my daughter's school is in the upper east side.
1:28 I see. Well, uh, you know, uh, Washington Heights is correct. Um, it's, it's, you know, we, uh, we gave up our apartment in a, in a great neighborhood in Brooklyn because really the commute just drove us crazy.
1:46 And, and it was so much every day to go from Brooklyn to the breweries, to the, every cyber school. So, um, we gave it up during COVID and bought a house out here, which was great, but we have to be in the city for her school.
2:00 So anything, anything far we'll just drive us bananas, you know, we, you know, I see I got it. No, that's probably like 15 minutes, 20 minutes from you.
2:13 We, we, we, we, yeah, no, we really need, we're settled on the upper east side of the upper west side.
2:19 I see. Okay. That's no problem. Well, uh, listen, uh, I work for the company called split lists and we always get something in, on a regular basis.
2:31 So if you like, and if you can send me your email address, I can send you the link to the company website.
2:40 You can see the listings, some of them may be available for you, some of them not, but it will give you some, a taste of what we do.
2:51 And the, I looked on, I looked on the website and it was interesting. So it says a maximum of No, no, it's starting with the seven weeks.
3:05 Not less it's minimum seven weeks. If it says much, if it says maximum seven weeks, I got an issue, you know, but it should say minimum seven weeks.
3:20 Well, what if we were to get an apartment ourselves and, and split it with someone because we don't, we don't need to be, we don't, you know, our credit is good and it would be nice to have our stress there.
3:34 We don't need to be there. Uh, Friday night, Saturday night, Sunday night. There's no reason for us to be there for the, for the weekend, By all means, if you want to get an apartment and the least with us for the weekends, we'll get you somebody at no time.
3:52 Okay. Um, okay. Well, thank you. Well, I'll look on there again. Yeah. We're just looking for a little place. I mean, it's a, we're never there.
4:01 We're never there fixations long weekends, all of that. So we're just looking for a little place. Stephanie, why don't we do this?
4:10 Why don't you send me your email at the us? And, uh, I believe that I have only the initial for your last name.
4:20 I need your full, last name as well. I'll send you the link for the side so you could lease your place if you decide.
4:30 Okay. All right. I'll do that. I'll text them to you by email initially. No, I think I communicated with you by email initially, Uh, on the keg list.
4:46 Not your own in Maya. Ah, I see. Okay. Okay, good. I'll I'll send you my email. Yes. Thank you. Nice chatting to you.
4:55 Thank you for your time. Okay. Thank you. Have a good day. Bye.
Sriram Guest Convo
0:13 Hello? Hello? Sriram yeah. Hi, this is Louis. I was texting you earlier about the apartment. I'm good. Is this still a good time for you?
0:25 Fantastic. Well, I, so, so you, you reached out about the Craigslist posting, um, and I wanted to get a better idea just to, you know, kind of what you're looking for, uh, to see if there's something that we can, we can make happen.
0:44 So I, I work with the company. Splitly not, not a realtor. Um, but what we do is we help match up people that have like complimentary needs within the city.
0:56 And we have someone with this specific need right now, uh, who, who is looking for someone to come in, ideally on the weekends, but has some flexibility.
1:06 Uh, so yeah, I mean, we're, we're kind of just like helping kind of think of like matchmaking, right. Trying to find the right person for the needs.
1:13 It's, it's like a very specific, um, focus or niche. We'll just why we specialize in it, you know? Um, but yeah, that's, that's a little bit about me.
1:23 It's like, you know, I have a hybrid job, so, you know, I've worked for a JP, Marvin, they need to be like maybe two days a week.
1:38 Um, you know, so our max three days a week, not more than that, so that, that would put me like maybe one or two nights, I just don't want to commute back and forth.
1:49 Uh, you know, so I don't mind, like, it's pretty flexible for me. It's not like, you know, it can be anytime, but obviously because I live in Pennsylvania and my family is here, I will come back on Thursday.
2:08 And so, uh, so that's the way I can just be here Friday, Saturday, Sunday, Friday, I'll just work from home.
2:14 So not like all the other days I'm pretty flexible for me. So, you know, So, so, so really any time between like Monday and Thursday, so you could, so you could stay like Monday night or so.
2:31 So you said one to two nights, so you could stay like Tuesday night, Wednesday night, and then, you know, ideally you're then out by Thursday, right?
2:40 Yeah. I know most of the times I want to see what the schedule, to be honest. I don't even know the person that's there.
2:50 I don't mind like sharing also. That's not like a, it's not a big deal for me because most of the meetings I actually spent really working only two nights.
3:00 I mean, two days separately, I've spent a lot of night. I said like very flexible, just, you know, as long as I can find somebody in a similar situation I'm willing to Nice.
3:16 Is, are you looking for a specific area in the city? No fine. That's he said he went Jersey city for me, as long as I have access to, uh, you know, the path or I shouldn't be doing Okay.
3:34 Got it. So then it's, you know, being like in Manhattan or in Brooklyn, like I know, I think JP Morgan office is in Manhattan, so Yeah,  46 months.
3:54 Yeah, I think I know what you're talking about. Okay. Um, that's awesome. I think that's something that we can, can definitely, uh, see what we can do to accommodate, like, you know, it sounds like you have, you've got a lot of flexibility, which honestly is very helpful for us when it comes to, uh, trying to find someone in particular.
4:10 This is guests that, um, we're, we're looking at right now. Um, our question, like, are you, do you have any specific budget in mind?
4:19 You know, does that, does it really matter? Of course, as long as it's not outrageous. Yeah. So old devious, I was thinking like, you know, $500 a month, as long as it's not outrageous.
4:34 I think, Yeah. I mean, for the night, the next year, looking at it, one of the nice parts with our model is that we have a lot more flexibility in, in the buildings structure.
4:45 Sorry, not building structure just in the way that the payment is calculated because you're not staying there the entire week.
4:51 Uh, so we take that into consideration when we're looking at how to set up the payment so that it makes sense for everybody, you know?
4:59 So that's, that's, that's a big advantage of this model. Um, so in question, so in the Craigslist, uh, we had mentioned, you know, that we would need someone to this.
5:07 This is willing to clean, uh, whenever they, whenever they leave, make sure the place it's all tie-dyed up. Uh, was that something that you're willing to do?
5:15 Yeah, absolutely. And I don't have anything really like, because I, I will not bring or leave anything there. Like literally would just come with a bag.
5:31 So it's for the next day and I will just leave the plan to backpack. So you don't need, I mean, our places have storage a lot of the time, so you don't, but you don't need any storage.
5:42 'cause um, you know, I don't even need any of that stuff because I'm not going to be like, you know, keeping anything there.
5:50 Got it. And where do you stay now? When you go into the city? Uh, I'm just staying with like, uh, friend now, but it's not the ideal because I can't, you know, it's just a temporary thing.
6:03 They spoke to them. So I just go like once a week now. Um, but I don't want to like, just take, like, because they have, um, you know, friends with them, they're not like accepting like any money or rent Or things, I guess I get what you mean.
6:21 I'm just crashing on someone's couch. I don't, I don't want to do that for much longer. Like just, Yeah, that's one of the, what's the, one of the nice parts we can offer as, you know, we can, we can accommodate this, these more like unique scenarios.
6:35 We'll give people the comfort of a place to sleep and come back to each week. Uh, that, that's why some people really like having the storage.
6:44 If you don't need it totally fine. You don't need to use it. Uh, you know, people just like, okay, Meaning up and all that.
6:50 That's all fine. That's talking about an issue. I mean, I don't think that would really be anything for me, honestly, nothing much because I'm not going to leave or do anything.
7:02 All stuff would have been Great. Great, great. Uh, so those are really all the questions I have for you. Let me go ahead and talk to the guests that I was looking for for this particular posting.
7:18 And in general, you know, we have several guests and this particular scenario, especially with your flexibility. Uh, what I want to do is work with my couple of my colleagues to see what we can do to find you the best price.
7:29 Like you have a lot of flexibility. So I think there's a lot of opportunity to find your really, really good deal.
7:36 Um, so yeah, so let me, let me go ahead and talk to my team to see what we can, what we can find for you.
7:40 Is this a good number to text if we need anything? Awesome. Awesome. Sriram well, we'll, we'll be in contact soon.
7:48 Okay. You have a good day.
