Steven Mariscal - 21 April 2022
00:29 Please leave your message for 9 1 4 7 7 0 6 7 6 0. Sorry. Mailbox is full to send an SMS notification.
02:05 Hey, what's up? Hey. Hey guys. Yeah, we finally connected. So, uh, I guess you want to stay in the city for weekends, weekdays and, uh, uh, that's great.
02:23 Uh, let me ask you a couple of questions here. You indicated Monday so Friday, but, uh, that you probably want to arrive Monday and leave Friday morning.
02:35 Is that correct? Um, yeah, or it could, I mean, ideally, I mean maybe, or, or Tuesday and leave Saturday morning or something, you know what I mean?
02:45 Yeah, I do understand. I'm just trying to understand what is your ideal schedule? So ideal arrive in Monday afternoon, Friday morning.
02:57 That means that you need four nights. Yes, Ideally. Okay. But you have some flexibility and for how long would you like it to do?
03:10 How many weeks do we need? Do we need it indefinitely? What's I mean, it's, I mean, I just saw the, I mean, I'm currently looking for like rooms and studios.
03:21 I just saw that come across me and I'm like, you know, let me inquire about this. So probably, definitely I don't have like a specific, I mean, at least throughout the summer or something, you know, and then come fall.
03:33 I said, well, give me your ideal schedule. And so what did we, what would we do? Any, anything between six weeks and, uh, six months.
03:48 So pick, pick a number. Um, let me think let's do this. We're in April. So may, June, July, August. So about six to about five to six months maybe.
04:04 And you replied to the ad and Harlem is a Harlem only a area you're interested in, or you would be interested in other areas of, Uh, to be honest, I, I would refer somewhere anywhere in it.
04:22 Uh, but again, I'm very flexible if there's something else, you know, That's fine. And you're saying you want studio or even the little private room?
04:31 Yeah. Either or video would be better, but probably room. Yeah, that works. Okay. Okay. So any single open, and do you have a budget which you want to stay in?
04:41 Like how much would you be willing to pay per month? I mean, it kind of depends. I mean, my monthly, like I was looking at it at another place and a monthly brand.
04:53 I was aiming for somewhere, like for a room was like around 1200. Uh, so, uh, let's say if it is a four weeks, times, four nights, it's 1200 for 16 nights.
05:07 Is that correct? So we're talking about 75 bucks a day. Okay. Okay. That's sounds fun. And, uh, do you need any special, uh, arrangements, like parking spot or anything like that?
05:32 Okay. Okay. Uh, let me explain how this thing work and, uh, we'll go from that. I worked for Splitly and Splitly is, is a marketplace somewhat similar to Airbnb, but we are specialized in and mentioned, goes through mates who need the property for partial weeks and partial months for on recurrent.
05:59 And the xray person is a splice as usual. It takes about CBX and the it's stats was a guest place in north obligation, expression of interest in the form of bead on the side for, uh, for the property.
06:15 And the, again, I repeat it is not no obligation. So if you place a bead for CA for a pop at this, it doesn't mean that to you.
06:23 And also we have four, it just increases your options. In case something doesn't work out with one particular one, because as I said, this is a, uh, not two way matchmaking, but Seaway image, making it's two guests and the landlord.
06:44 So it's a little bit more complicated in order to make it happens. That's why we encourage our guests to do more bids.
06:56 So, uh, I was away. Uh, it works and let's, uh, let's say you place a bean in you place a bead for one day.
07:07 So Saturday, because we're talking in nights, we're not talking to days, but talking to nights. And if you plan to be in tonight Monday, so Sunday, uh, as soon as that's been placed, it starts the process on our end.
07:26 And we immediately start looking for your match, which would take sort of this for Monday. As soon as we identify that person, we introduce you guys in the form of emit.
07:41 So we create a zoom meeting where two of you can see each other to talk about anything you want to talk.
07:48 Even you don't see each other when you actually use property, because by the time one lesson, one already go on, we still want you to be comfortable with the shadow because your users the same public.
08:05 So if you guys like each other's and we introduce you together to landlords with a daft or release, which is in the lease is going to be based on the expectations of both of you.
08:23 And it will have as a schedules who is using <inaudible>, uh, basically food lease drafted, which will be presented to landlord.
08:35 However, for the landlord, that would be a full time lease. So what it does actually it's, uh, allows landlord to have a full occupancy in the same time.
08:49 It allows guys like you have to pay only for the nights you need and not fool is also a zoo.
08:59 When we introduce this to goes to maze, a Z are not, uh, equal. If you will. There's a person who places the bead with cause of Carson anchor.
09:12 He has most flexibility. He has sets a schedule and then nights like I want a Monday. So source there, I want to start on May 20th and finish on October 15th.
09:28 And so, so Zach was that person, uh, gets full flexibility, but he pays the full night replies as advertised, owns a site zipper as a person, which we call a fat deal.
09:47 He must match the anchors, make wine. So he must take the rest of the nights. He must, uh, follow the same number of weeks.
10:00 And also that person must do some chores. That person is required to tidy up the place before he uses it.
10:11 And after he uses it. So if you are anchoring, you left on Thursday, that person come in. If there is, we expect you to leave the property in decent shape, but that person must tidy up, use it and then do it again.
10:28 So by the time you're alive ever so nice and clean in exchange for this less flexibility and doing those chores, that person pays discounted rate 40% less.
10:43 So if you pay a hundred bucks, they will pay 60 bucks. So this is, uh, a way of, uh, uh, trying to make it work for everybody.
10:59 Because some people are very flexible, but looking for a more economical solution, some people are not flexible. They won't ever say exactly like they wanted and they willing to pay for it.
11:16 So in order for that to take place, uh, what I would suggest I know from you, I ha I have your name.
11:28 I have your phone number. I would need your email address. If you text me your email address, that will give me enough to preset you on our website and you will receive of the website and link to your account.
11:47 It will give you the ability to start searching through the properties on the site and start beading. Also separately. Ism is an option on the website, which says, would you like to apply for 40% discount?
12:05 Would you like the 40th 40% safe? So that as a nozzle, uh, poets. And so if you say, yes, I do it for last guy, flexible.
12:18 Are you willing to do some work? And if you aren't, so yes, it gets you soon as the process of applying for hot deals.
12:25 So what I would suggest for you, if you text me your email, actually, if you're a, is not complicated, I'll just write it down.
12:35 What, what is that? What is your email? So I just write to down Steve, Uh, even, yeah, it's dot my last name.
12:50 M a R I S C a L. And uh, I asked I, yes, she, oh Yeah. Seven. <inaudible> wonderful. So, uh, you will receive two 30.
13:12 Well, the mail from the site was the link. You'll also receive my introductory email, which will have all my contacts.
13:21 I will be your concierge service. You can contact me at any time. If you have any questions, how to use site, what what to do and just <inaudible>, you can contact me.
13:35 I, you will have my phone, my email, my Skype, uh, what I would suggest, uh, the best working is texting me because, uh, I get a lot of emails and sometimes it takes me a little bit to answer to all the miles, but I have answer texts immediately.
13:58 So I just suggest to use texts. And if we need to talk to text me, Hey, can we talk at such and such time?
14:06 And we can talk him and do it. But if you start this today, uh, hopefully tomorrow, mid week tomorrow, we will send you some soup to consider, Or I'm sorry, I didn't want to say mid week tomorrow.
14:24 I mean, when next week. So it doesn't sound good. Yeah. So it's mid next week. Well, I'll send you something to consider and go from there.
14:42 And again, you have no obligation whatsoever until you actually signs release. So if Lisa's not signed, you can come to the very last point.
14:54 Introduce everybody. Talk to when I was in the, in Zen. If, if you are not feeling comfortable, you're not signing the lease.
15:02 Also as a couple other things, which you want to know, first of all, uh, you will be paying Souza website, not directly to the landlord.
15:15 We will collect, uh, money on four week basis. So for like 10 days prior to start, usually we collect first four weeks and then we'll do it every four weeks.
15:32 Uh, we keep the money until you go in and you try apartment the first day. So you would have a first day, you would have 24 hours to give you the apartment and say, oh yeah, everything is as it wasn't advertised.
15:50 And the, if Samsung is not what you expected, you will have 24 hours to contact us and, or work out the, uh, fixing the issue or cancel your lease.
16:06 And, you know, you see all your money back. If 24 hours later, you didn't contact us, that's means that you accepted full acceptance release.
16:17 Also your safety deposit is going to stay with us and it's not going to be sent to the landlord unless there is a justification's you causes the damage.
16:33 So if a landlord claimed something, uh, we will come back to you and say, Hey, Steven landlord says that you and this couch, do you agree?
16:48 And they, if basically it is a, uh, in-person investigation process before any money change hands. So basically we're going to use it.
17:02 You're not going to be ripped off. I mean, Okay. So I think I gave you a brief explanation the year we'll have those two emails shortly.
17:17 And after that, uh, go and do, do the beads dues. Uh, I encourage you to sign for the car deals and the we'll go from there.
17:33 Perfect. Thank you very much. Okay, Steven, nice talking to you. You too. I'll drop the email and look into it and everything.
17:42 Thank you very much. Thank you. Yeah. Uh,
