Steve Zhang Customer Call
0:01:04 Hey, Steve. Hey, I can't hear you quite yet. Well, let's, uh, let's figure out what's going on with the audio.
0:01:19 Yeah, I can hear it well, and probably in a really high quality with that. Boom. I got my podcast. I love it.
0:01:29 Um, so you're friends with Joyce. Yeah. Right. And so what happened was I was, um, catch up with her before I do that.
0:01:38 I always look month just to see like, oh, what did I miss? This, this is very relevant to my current situation.
0:01:47 So, uh, I guess I'll just . Yeah. Cool. Well, definitely want to talk because this is my passion, so I happy to, happy to talk at length.
0:01:58 Okay, Awesome. Yeah. Um, and at work, So I'm in Troy, Michigan right now. And, um, that is, I don't know if you know where Joyce grew up, but I actually Grew up in Maitland.
0:02:14 All right. Yeah. Yeah. I didn't grow up around here, but I hear it's very nice. And my wife, um, my wife enjoys, uh, went to the same school.
0:02:24 Oh, Okay. I think she went to international academy. That's right. Okay. Right. Yeah. We went down the rabbit hole, like, like how school districts, they don't have any sports teams.
0:02:39 Like I got buy in from like 10 different school districts. Yeah. And decided, Hey, we're going to build a super school district.
0:02:48 Yeah, exactly. Cool. Yeah. You know what, Joyce and I it's, it's weird. We have all of these common threads. One of my really good is this guy named Sergio Prado.
0:03:03 And, uh, he enjoys, went to school together. And then it turns out that, you know, my wife and Joyce grew up like 15 minutes away from each other.
0:03:13 And she was the first employee of, uh, this company called, um, uh, gosh, what was it called? It was used to be called captain 4 0 1 and then, Um, human interest.
0:03:30 Yeah, exactly. So human interests, um, was co-founded by, um, Roger and Paul and Paul stood up in my wedding. So Paul and I are really good friends.
0:03:41 Um, so Jason, I just have a million things in common and now she had a baby and her pediatrician is my wife's, uh, boss.
0:03:52 Oh, okay. That's where the Michigan, Her pediatrician is in Michigan. That's right. Because they were here, you know, her mom's here and, um, they were here, Joyce and Sheridan were here for like 10 straight months.
0:04:08 Yeah. Um, and so I just, Molly and I had a wedding booster. Molly's my wife. Um, we had a wedding boost or celebration, uh, which is like a second wedding to like, you know, boost it a little bit.
0:04:27 So we stayed with Joyce and Sheridan for, for that time. Oh, Oh, that's awesome. Awesome. Let's do it. Cool. And um, yeah, I haven't talked to her on the phone a month.
0:04:38 I'm like, I don't even remember walking. Um, but I don't , I think they have some intention to split their time.
0:04:51 Um, it's funny because I was telling Joyce about like a year and a half ago, uh, about split Lee's and she was like, oh, so you're building a marketplace for multi locals.
0:05:01 And, and for some reason, you know, I've been doing this for such a long time. I'd never heard that word multi local before, and I'm like, Joyce, you just know everything don't you.
0:05:11 So, um, so the, uh, reasoning that, um, shared and gave was that basically for what he does, you know, being outside of San Francisco is a bit lonely.
0:05:26 Uh, Yeah. So I think Joyce actually would have preferred something like Singapore or, yeah, because Sheridan was like, um, we, we were having a dinner, uh, over at their house and Chariton said, quote, um, you know, uh, San Francisco is great for the weather.
0:05:47 And I remember Joyce just looking at him and going, you know, there's a lot of places with better weather than San Francisco, right.
0:05:54 Yeah, exactly. Right. And did you don't need to like paint around that? Right. So I don't think she's leading the charge on the San Francisco thing, but, but they have a really nice space and they're making it work for Apollo.
0:06:07 And I think, you know, what more can you have, like why you got two people who are focused on their passions and they're making it work.
0:06:16 Yeah. That makes sense. Even though like where it's like, I mean, it's all remote in many ways, but I'm like, why am I back?
0:06:27 I came back because I thought I have to go back to January, but that's not going to happen. And I should've never, ever been at the office always again, this time I was like, Oh yeah.
0:06:42 Well, it reminds me of that joke. It's like, I intend to live forever so far. So good. There's always, I don't, you know, I don't know if we'll ever return to the office completely, but I don't know.
0:06:53 Maybe partially, maybe, I don't know. Uh, like you said, you've been doing this for a while. Like Paul, how did you get into it?
0:07:03 And then yeah. Yeah. Um, actually I went to, uh, NYU stern school of business. And so my background is in financial mathematics.
0:07:14 And so, you know, when I said to my parents, Hey, I want to switch out of basically the hedge fund world into home sharing.
0:07:22 You know, they were like, I have no son kind of thing. Uh, but then over time they began to see what split leases and like why it works.
0:07:32 And in hindsight with coronavirus, it seems pretty obvious like, oh, okay, you, you can have location freedom. You can just have a satellite home and then have a permanent address.
0:07:42 And your satellite home doesn't have to cost that much. And so you can choose your tax basis to, you know, there's like lots of different reasons why, why you might want to do it.
0:07:50 We are careful with California that they're very good about getting it. They're very smart. Yes, they're good. Um, cause I'm sure they have a lot of really intelligent people try to thwart their systems in any case.
0:08:04 Um, um, w originally what happened was, um, I was building a hedge fund. Um, I'm like 26 years old. I'm dating a consultant and she says, we, you know, Igor, you're killing yourself.
0:08:20 Like we need to travel. And I'm like, my parents didn't come here for me to f*****g dig around. My parents came here so that I could work really hard.
0:08:31 So I was like, yeah, we're going to lose our rent. We're gonna, you know, I, I gave her all the spiel of like firstborn, immigrant male, why I don't want to spend money.
0:08:40 Right. And so she's like, no, dude, you can travel on points and guess what? You can get your space paid.
0:08:49 And, um, I put my space up on Airbnb and it was just like, oh, like a lot of other people, it was like a light bulb.
0:08:57 Like people willing to pay me nearly $400 a night. And my lease was like two grand. So Chicago works really differently from say San Francisco and San Francisco.
0:09:08 Um, you know, when you sublet your space, you sell at a discount in Chicago. When you sublet your space, you sublet it at a huge premium.
0:09:18 Well, um, there's a lot of different reasons. Uh, traffic is more important. The, the demand is more important than the supply, basically in Chicago because in Chicago, there's tons of supply.
0:09:32 So if you have access to demand, that's where the edge comes from. And you can see that even in real estate markets, like a real estate agent in New York city, you know, the buyer has to pay in a real estate agent in Chicago, the seller has to pay, oh, So you're basically saying you can get really good spaces, like really nice cheap.
0:09:52 And then if you can find people about Yeah, cause what you have is like parody among hotel markets. And so hotels are offering roughly, you know, $170 a night in San Francisco and $170 a night in Chicago.
0:10:09 But the average monthly rental rates between those two places, you know, are night and day. So if you can resegment the market from sort of the average hotel guest to, uh, average monthly as your cost basis, then you know, you're, you're, it's pennies on the dollar for, um, for the supply.
0:10:31 Got it. Okay. Although I would say San Francisco, give me more than I'm like, I've never been able to find that like, maybe it's like 200, like one 70, you can get up and go to hell, but like, that's probably like 300, You know, I, I tend to agree with you.
0:10:47 It's just, uh, just for, for purposes of talking about margin, I think, all right, though, I see The city matters a lot in terms of whether or not it's demand or supply, that's the sort of limiting factor.
0:11:05 Okay. Um, and so is your company doing this kind of stuff for clients for awhile? Yeah. So originally, um, you know, I'm a, I'm a Russian immigrant and, um, so I was sort of taught to be skeptical of things.
0:11:20 And what happened was I went on this vacation and my, um, my consultant girlfriend was telling me that basically she wants to quit her job sucks and that she loves me and she just wants to live with me.
0:11:35 And so I was like, you know, sounds expensive. And, um, uh, and she said, no, but like, seriously, I live out of a suitcase.
0:11:43 I can't control what I eat. And she was like describing this multi local sort of problem to me. And I was like, look, if, if Airbnb is the thing and all these management consultants flying Monday through Thursday, and then they just stay in each other's places, you know?
0:11:58 Ah, I'm just saying that like, like munching on a burger, like beautiful scenery. I didn't know that it was gonna like become a big a thing.
0:12:07 And so she was like, you know, goosebumps, Igor, I love it. I'm going to quit my job and we're going to create this marketplace.
0:12:16 And so that's when I said, no, f**k that. That's like by far the most expensive idea you've ever had by at least two orders of magnitude, I'm definitely not doing it.
0:12:27 If we build it, they won't come. Nope, no way. And so, um, we got into a thing where she basically was like, look, my job sucks.
0:12:37 I said, well, if your job sucks and Airbnb is this rich, why don't we just pick up some supply? We don't have to create a whole marketplace.
0:12:44 I don't want to compete against Airbnb. Let's just pick up some supply. And so she was like, fair enough. So for three years we ran an Airbnb property management company and that was dope.
0:13:03 Um, so, you know, it's, it's, it's kinda like population dinette. I, you know what, Steve, I don't know your background.
0:13:09 Um, w could you tell me a little bit about you and then I'll tailor it, tailor this to, Yeah, I've been in my career, um, grew up kind of all over, uh, college of Boston, uh, lifted at the broadest China pretty much every year, my life.
0:13:27 Um, and then, uh, so I did one year of digital nomadics for fun. Cause I was like, I want to be Seattle, which must've been every city that I ended up Boston, uh, Paris.
0:13:43 And then, um, I was supposed to go six months so that we can have a lot of kind of friends together.
0:13:52 Um, and then, you know, I was the last year and a half, a little bit, like we didn't leave California, didn't see my parents for a year and a half and then lost flaw.
0:14:04 And I was like, this is August. And I was like, oh, I'm studying. I know how to do this. I've done this a lot before.
0:14:10 I feel safe, traveling a lot. Now I'm going to like, shut it down, like to consolidate all my stuff. Like I basically work at your table.
0:14:24 So I have like, basically my belongings friends who are,  Like there there's some other career reasons to do that. And I've been like looking at like doing something that's like another copy of that.
0:14:50 And then really crazy, like moving to Boston for a variety of reasons, including or creating, like I ran into like an old acquaintance and be like, maybe we can hit it off.
0:15:05 She was like, at college, like 10 years ago, I was like, well, I'm not coming back. And then I came back and the air table, like, you have to go back and I'm like, okay, I guess I'm going back.
0:15:21 And I literally have no ugly anywhere right now. Um, and Sheridan, like, you know, if I wasn't going to Boston, it'd be a lot harder, but Austin has a lot to Midland, Michigan or anything, but that's kind of why I've been thinking a lot about this.
0:15:41 Um, for that six months I missed the house. Like I have to have them here. And then I started to use  and I'm like, I don't really need this money.
0:15:54 And I rather like all my friends, like I have a thing in my room where I have a lot and then I'm house sitting for a friend of Boston, but it's just like very inefficient, but yeah.
0:16:05 And I know what you mean. Cause every time you have to set it up, your ROI is like a couple of days, even if it's ROI of karma, which is, you know, sort of not, Yeah.
0:16:17 Also just time unpacking everything three hours. Now I lifted out of a suitcase at my girlfriend's house. Um, yeah.  with my girlfriend.
0:16:33 It doesn't really make sense. Like she has a smaller place. She has a husband and I don't want to like stay in there for like a month against I love your style.
0:16:43 Yeah. It's uh, it's something, um, uh, yeah, something I'm hearing more and more of these days. Yeah. So yeah. You had your, uh, it's 2017 and at that time I was like, I didn't even, I didn't want to think about it.
0:17:02 Cause I was like navigating this remote, very tenuous and remote working arrangement with my manager. So I was like, I'm not going to lease out my place if I need to come back to see my cat.
0:17:12 And I'm just going to like, you know, like view it as like my kids and love it. Right. Like you did Airbnb did it, If you don't mind, I'm just going to add a couple words here or there.
0:17:25 Um, so that we can frame, um, one of the things that multi locals have is schedule uncertainty. They have a sense of schedule certainty in a sense of schedule uncertainty.
0:17:35 Like things could change or they want to tack on nights where they want their space back. Right. So I just want to, um, mention that as schedule certainty and schedule uncertainty.
0:17:46 And then the side of the thing that you mentioned is that, you know, falling in love that that's, uh, a big, uh, that's a, that's a big trigger for people to do space changes or living arrangement, um, uh, switch ups.
0:17:58 And so it can happen that people have two spaces, but they're over at each other's space a lot. And we as a segment call that, you know, sort of couples with extra space.
0:18:09 Um, so one, one side says to the other, you move in with me and the other says, no, you move in with me.
0:18:15 And then, so the idea is that, you know, they could, they could rent out either weekends or weeknights, um, to the same person, but keep their stuff all in the same location so that they don't have all that like managerial overhead.
0:18:31 Okay. I see. So you you're basically doing what, um, like what people don't like on Facebook or informally through their friend networks.
0:18:42 Yeah. I mean, uh, you know, oftentimes that's what the customer development approach says to do. It's basically like figure out what people are generally putting together and give them a, like a full fledged solution for it.
0:18:55 Um, and then you'll, you'll make a couple of people really happy. Got it, Got it. Okay, cool. Um, and then it's, I guess to the supplier, you're like, oh, you don't need to make it as like Airbnb.
0:19:10 Right. You can leave their stuff and then that's fine. You're like in an Airbnb. So there's, there's a big financial, uh, differentiation between Airbnb and split lease.
0:19:23 Um, because a split lease doesn't have top line and bottom line taxes. It works on the basis of roommate rent, aggregation.
0:19:31 So instead of receiving kind of income, right. And then paying cleaning fees and taxes and all that stuff. So there's, there's two types of taxation.
0:19:41 When you get to sort of short term rentals, the first time, the first type is called a short term rental tax and that's a top-line sales tax.
0:19:49 Yeah. And the second, Yeah, it's um, it's the heaviest in Chicago, it's like 17%, 17.4% in Chicago. And it may be on the order of 15% in New York.
0:20:04 And I wonder in San Francisco, if it's, if it isn't around 15% as well, I'd have to check the numbers, but it's like what you say that between the top line and bottom line taxes, um, if you're already gainfully employed, um, it's sort of, sort of a nightmare to try to get, um, to count the right obligations and deductions to make it tax efficient.
0:20:32 Yeah. Got it. Yeah. So, but to answer your other question, what do we do? We basically have two things that we do the first is that we match people, um, with part-time needs with other people with part-time space.
0:20:47 That's the first thing we do. And that that's sort of obvious, right? That's the obvious one that we do. Another thing that's really interesting, which is that we take entire spaces and we match those to roommates.
0:21:01 So we find two people who basically want to share the space, not at the same time, but for the same duration.
0:21:09 So as long as they have the same start date and end date, and what we found is actually that the people who, um, who really want this sort of thing, and they have a specific start date and a specific end date, um, we call them the anchor.
0:21:26 Someone who's like really, really wants it. And then there's another person who we call the hot deal internally, but they're basically just goes to roommates.
0:21:35 Um, and what the hot deal gets is 40% off the same listing for the same duration, as long as they commit to tidying up the space.
0:21:46 So basically, um, if you were to go to our site, what you would see is that you would see that there's two flows.
0:21:54 One of them allows you to sort of bid on a listing. So you find a listing that you're interested in and you create a bid for it.
0:22:01 And then we have sort of in our repository, a waitlist of people who want a hot deals, so basically a listing for 40% off.
0:22:10 And so that's The question. Exactly. So, but they need to complimentary match the anchor schedule. So if you're someone who doesn't give a s**t, like which days of the week it is, which nights of the week it is, then it's perfect for you because, um, because all you wanted was like, say to date in, uh, New York city and then you still can, and you have an entire space to yourself with a much bigger, um, much bigger square footage, you know, for a lower price than you would have paid for, with a hotel.
0:22:47 Oh, I see. Like I live in Chicago that I want to like do that in New York a couple times a week or New Jersey or something.
0:22:55 I like for a date for a season. Yeah. Okay. Got it. Oh Yeah, exactly. I don't really care whether it's Thursday, Friday, Saturday, or whether it's some other arrangement Or yeah.
0:23:11 So we offer two kinds of splits and that's, uh, intro weekend intro month or next to the week splits and weeks of the month splits.
0:23:19 And so weeks of the month can be like two weeks on, two weeks off. Uh, but usually I'll just tell you for most of our, for the customers that find the most value it's resegmenting them from hotels because in a hotel, they can't come back to the same room, so they can't leave their stuff and they have noise and they don't have a kitchen.
0:23:41 And so basically it's a much more sustainable living arrangement, uh, in terms both price and quality, uh, then say piecing together a bunch of hotel tonight stays, uh, Right.
0:23:53 And these people are doing like either when we sit them the month or the days of the seven weeks. Yeah.
0:23:59 So usually those people are doing nights of the week because if they have a job, they have a schedule they've been, they've been using hotels or crashing a friend's couches.
0:24:09 That's not sustainable, but they want to keep their job because they bought a place, say, um, you know, outside. And they started to live their life, like, you know, grow their family.
0:24:20 And so they don't want to uproot their family and move back to New York city, but they still want to have access to, um, living like a local in New York.
0:24:30 So a lot of it is people meeting by airplane. They're like within an hour ago. Exactly. If you're doing this.
0:24:41 Yeah. You'll see on our site that, um, we make mention to the airplane for the entire month splits. It makes much more sense to do that two times a month rather than to do it two times a week.
0:24:52 Got it. Okay, cool.  Yeah, exactly. So we're, we're at the stage where we're just kind of like showing our atomic network and our Tomic networks in New York city.
0:25:06 Uh, okay. Got it. I'm just curious, like, how did you  especially where you're like, I'm going to make a product.
0:25:15 Yeah. So, um, so I, I, this is, this is a kind of personal question in a way, like, how does a person decide what they want to do with their lives?
0:25:28 I was a little bit, I was a little bit tired of finance. I was tired of like using mathematical methods to like trick people out of money.
0:25:38 Like I got pretty good at it and you know, so I had a hedge fund. Um, I started it when I was 25.
0:25:45 And then by the time I was like 31, um, I was, um, I was a little tired of that because the reason I got into it was that the, the P the guy who paid for my family to come to the United States, he died of cancer.
0:26:02 And then my girlfriend kinda like embezzled from that original business. And then my parents made a bunch of money. And so I was like, the f**k am I doing with my life?
0:26:13 Like, why am I doing this? Like, my parents don't need it. This guy is not alive anymore. And doesn't give a s**t and I don't want to make money for women.
0:26:21 So why don't I just do something that's like net positive for the world. And I was like, kind of trying to figure out what that could be.
0:26:30 And I really felt like this multi-level lifestyle, like I would never prior to researching it, I was like, I would never choose that because, you know, I'm scrunched over a laptop, not doing any work.
0:26:45 And it just seemed like, like pretty ineffective to me. Uh, so then it was only after I kind of moved to San Francisco.
0:26:54 I went to burning man. So the answer is burning man. Basically I went to burning man. I was on a trip and I decided that like, in my heart of hearts, I care about two things.
0:27:04 I care about the American dream and I care about health. And I feel like a lot of these people, they get kind of like, uh, they get funneled into this life that, that is ultimately really terrible.
0:27:17 And all they're just trying to do is like live the American dream. And so I just, I just felt like I could really help with that.
0:27:24 Yeah. Okay. Oh, nice. Okay. That's when you, did you take your property management business? No, we just, basically we shut that down.
0:27:35 I spent, uh, about a year and a half looking for someone else to be the CEO of this company. Cause I like didn't want to do it.
0:27:44 And then, um, you know, no one came up and like no one was going to do it. And so I decided to run like a test where I scraped a bunch of Airbnb listings and I, in, in, uh, 60 cities, it was 1200 listings in 60 cities and I just put them up on Craigslist and I said, Hey, I'm a consultant living in so-and-so.
0:28:05 Does anyone want to stay at my space? And so, you know, the, the, uh, responses came in and, um, the responses were like, yeah, my commute is f*****g terrible and I would love to stay at your space.
0:28:19 And I've had the same commute for the last 10 years. You know, I live in Stanford, Connecticut, or I live in Jersey city or I live wherever, you know?
0:28:27 And so whether it was in, um, the bay area, which, where the commuting's a new problem, uh, or it was in New York or commuting is a very old problem or whether it was DC.
0:28:39 Um, a lot of the customer discovery said that the people who want to rent these places are the people who would otherwise, um, either be using their cars or staying in hotels.
0:28:54 So based on that response, I was like, okay, I guess there's a business here. And, um, I'm just going to see what I can do to, to try to grow it.
0:29:05 And so, like, I moved to San Francisco, um, and then like coronavirus happened and that, that was just horrible. You know, it was just like everything that we thought, um, was all of a sudden, like, not there, you know what I mean?
0:29:22 We were, we were basically doing corporate bookings before that. And then, um, so we just kept like iterating the product, like all a blitz scaling style where people would come in and we would see their user behavior and sort of just keep iterating the product as much as possible.
0:29:39 Um, and I would say we're, we're kind of, we're, we're close, but we're not at product market fit. We're much further than we were.
0:29:50 And then we just use like fast feedback cycles to, um, to basically it looks like split, at least is obvious in hindsight, but it was not obvious in 2020.
0:30:03 Yeah. Interesting. 2020 was   Yeah, there were no corporate bookings. Okay. Yeah. So it was a pivot, it was a full pivot to non-corporate just regular people doing bookings and w uh, kind of good thing happened, which is that Airbnb at that time, um, decided that, uh, they were going to compromise what the government's sort of across, across the board and sell out their hosts.
0:30:44 So they finally like gave their hosts, the host data to the governments because they didn't need those hosts anyway. And so basically Airbnb prices went way up, like between cleaning fees and taxes and every, you know, you, you see it on Twitter.
0:30:59 People like complain about Airbnb being a really high price. Um, and so what, what ended up happening was Oh, a bunch of hosts just went out of business.
0:31:13 The supply went down. Yeah. Uh, So the, so the market price went way up because the demand was still there, but the supply got cut in half or in New York city, it fell by as much from the Heights.
0:31:29 It fell by as much as 80%. Got it. Got it. Wow. Interesting. Uh, so, you know, in, in meant basically that if you were someone who wanted to, you know, I'm going to call it live like a human, um, if you didn't want to stay at a hotel, but you wanted to stay in more of like a home space, um, the prices for that became really premium.
0:31:54 And then if you look at New York city, uh, kinda like prices now, they're, they're sort of up and up and up.
0:32:01 And so if you offer a type of FinTech solution for home sharing, like we do, um, then just by simply by resegmenting people from staying, uh, short-term lodging to medium term lodging, you get a huge savings, like, you know, on the order of thousands, thousands, or depending on who you are, it can reach greater than 10,000, but usually it's just thousands per year.
0:32:27 Um, Wow. That's super interesting. Um, and did you get to avoid some of the packages? Yeah, so basically, basically, uh, the, uh, Splitly, it says a marketplace that doesn't owe the government, um, uh, this, these top-line taxes because they're medium term rentals.
0:32:49 And so since you're leaving your stuff there and your stuff occupies the space, and generally speaking, we do book bookings of like 28 nights or more.
0:32:59 So it's like, you're not really a tourist, so we don't really owe tourist taxes. So hotels do have to pay those taxes.
0:33:08 And what it means is that our cost basis for supplies is there for lower. Got it. Oh, um, uh, I'll just, maybe I'll just, I also say to saunter Quite a bit, It's a bit, it's cheaper than Airbnb.
0:33:33 Like in Boston, I can get it down to like 90 a month. Um, and the reason, I guess the reason I can do it though, is like, I don't need a kitchen.
0:33:47 I was just like cooking dinner, have girlfriend's house, but not, but I could see how other people are like, obviously this is kind of an exception.
0:33:55 Well, it's really for people who want a continuous space, but not to be there continuously to pay paper, not continuous.
0:34:06 So, um, I'll give you an example of that. Like, uh, um, our first customer was a divorced dad and, um, he wanted a place by his ex-wife because he had a five-year-old daughter.
0:34:18 And so for him, um, it's much cheaper to do it that way because he doesn't have continuous needs. And so it's actually really inexpensive, but his substitute product, if it's like hotels or, or other rentals, um, are much more expensive or they suck for raising his daughter.
0:34:39 Right. Like if he took her to a different, like motel six every time, I don't think that's like the kind of dad that he really wants to be.
0:34:49 Cause He went to Harvard because he went to Harvard. So he's not going to, like, I can take his daughter to a motel six.
0:34:54 You 16. Got it. Yeah. I also, I respect Francis Davidson. Um, just like directly just to say that. Um, so I probably can't say anything negative about Sondra, but we, uh, we do have different business models.
0:35:20 Yeah. I can hear some interesting thing sucks. I don't know why they, um, first of all, their text conversations are, um, you, if you don't respond within like 30 seconds, you're like, who does this?
0:35:39 Like at my Amex later and they keep going. It's super annoying. I can't think of any other activities. Well, I love, I love to participate in hearing this stuff, but I certainly, I can't, uh, it it's a different business model and, um, uh, they've done tremendously well, uh, in terms of their top line revenue.
0:36:05 And it seems like their profitability. And I wonder if they're in a different stage of the business, maybe they, maybe they don't need to, um, wow.
0:36:14 Their customers as much as we need to. Yeah. Interesting. Yeah. Let's see. Um, and then are you going to, uh, like, um, expand to other cities are still in Europe, But yeah, until product market fit, um, I think the other city rollout is going to be relaxed.
0:36:37 It's fairly trivial now that we know how to match customer mates. Um, we could open up like a waitlist and do this ghost roommate matching in other cities.
0:36:47 Um, but I do think that it would dilute focus. It would just be a friendly thing to do rather than a good strategic move for us To get from Detroit.
0:36:59 Well, I went to NYU, I went to NYU and two of our employees are in New York city. Um, and so I visited New York city a couple of times, I would say what I like about running.
0:37:12 So I, I have a, like a huge office here with like a bunch of different computers and this, this space, or this is my parents' house actually.
0:37:26 And so we just completely remodeled the basement. Um, entirely we, we, we even have a server room, not that like, you know, text, so you know that we don't need one.
0:37:36 Um, but we even like have one over there with like a server rack. It just reminds me of the good old days of like high frequency trading or whatever.
0:37:45 It's literally, it's, it's a 100% ornamentation, you know what I mean? Like, so, and then this room back here, um, is a private room.
0:37:54 So people like Paul, um, Paul's going to come visit here. Um, he's actually an advisor for the company. So people like Paul, um, have a place to stay and we can actually do kind of like leadership things.
0:38:09 Yeah. Anyway, my, the point that I'm trying to make is that there's pros and cons. The con is that I'm desperately lonely for really intelligent people.
0:38:20 It isn't the best techniques, I guess. Oh, they're just so not forward-thinking, they're all like, well, a company that's worth a million dollars is, is, is amazing.
0:38:33 And it's like, dude, you can't do anything with a million dollars anymore. Like, what are you talking about? , you know, I've been here three weeks.
0:38:46 I literally people like Henry morning and evening  and then I'll kind of like, I don't think I need, I can probably get the same E two weeks every quarter.
0:39:00 I don't know. So that's right. So that, that San Francisco is, but you, you do recognize that you have to be in San Francisco part at least part of the time.
0:39:11 I not so sure. I feel like where, I mean, the, the, the place, like, , it's just like the biggest things from like, I spend time doing that.
0:39:29 Right. Or like the deals, the deals, like they all come from virtual. I think I at like nine must be probably more accurately.
0:39:45 Uh, and then, you know, that circle. Right, right. You know what, I completely understand what you're saying, but I didn't feel that way.
0:40:00 Um, like when my, when my friends started having kids and I was missing like weddings and, and their kids' birthdays and stuff like that, I actually started to feel like, um, I just, I just felt like I wasn't as close with them as I wanted.
0:40:20 Yeah. I get that. Yeah. Definitely are like,  like go with them with their kids. I guess if the question is, you know, are our remote people productive?
0:40:36 They answer is f**k. Yeah. The barriers to entry are super low, so you can literally hire two for the cost of one.
0:40:42 And then like, if their productivity is 80%, you get 1.6 out of it. So it's like, What is the value?
0:40:50 You know, more like more like, I'll probably start something or join something very early stage. Well, for me, it's, for me, it's really important.
0:40:59 Like I got a guy here he's going to be, um, he's going to be promoted to co-founder pretty soon. And, um, you know, when we, when we talk over contracts, like last time we were talking over a contract, I started playing C shanty songs on, um, on Alexa, because like, the numbers are so big.
0:41:18 It's like, who the f**k cares? You know, do you want to do this thing? And I feel like there's nothing like the visceral experience of like shaking somebody's hand or hugging them, or just like really, really knowing that your complete partners.
0:41:33 Yeah. So it might be, I think it's definitely true that remote is, it can be pretty awesome, but you know, I, you know, I'm a, I'm a hybrid kind of guy.
0:41:45 I just like, I, I think that there's pros in both directions. You're going to be based in Michigan. I don't know.
0:41:58 So, so I'll, I'll tell you what I actually believe is that the future is the satellite home sort of thing.
0:42:05 And I think that Michigan really blows in the winter. And if like Molly really wants to be here, uh, a lot of people choose their life path.
0:42:14 They have it chosen for them based on like indentured servitude, you know, they get into a bunch of debt and then they have to pay it off or something else, or, or their parents paid for their college and they need to make their parents proud or something like that.
0:42:26 And so, you know, once a person comes out of that phase in their thirties or forties, they may, um, have this like, realization that there's more to life.
0:42:37 And so, you know, you, you and I happened to be the exceptions, I think, to the rule. And the rule is that people generally, you know, look at location as, as something permanent.
0:42:48 That's where their friends are. That's where their home is. That's that's whatever. Um, but I think that actually, when you leave for a season, you're more likely to see your friends.
0:43:00 Then if you don't leave, because when you're just live around them, you just end up not seeing them ever. There's like, Yeah,  Yeah.
0:43:12 It creates this amazing, like urgency and a sense of purpose for the actual, um, get together, which I don't know why that's necessary.
0:43:19 Like there, there shouldn't need to be one, but San Francisco is really good at creating these events. And like, if you live in other places, it, it, it, it's not the same.
0:43:28 It's not like you can go house party at house party and meet people. It's like, where does A tough store right now?
0:43:33 You would spend your in real lifetime doing founder startup, then that's going to parties and stuff. Well, I don't, I don't know.
0:43:42 I am, I am a member of the battery. And so I probably would, um, hang out there with other people, uh, because I think space changes the sort of dynamics of how the conversations go.
0:43:56 And, um, so yes, I consider San Francisco to be, um, essential for marketplace builders. Um, which is what I am.
0:44:06 If you, if you were a builder of something else, literally anything else, it could be any other product. Um, I don't know if San Francisco's as essential.
0:44:15 Got it. How many, like, yeah, like marketplace, what's the order of magnitude. You think founders there are right now, like hundreds.
0:44:23 Okay. I think, I think there's probably a thousand who consider themselves to be building a marketplace. Yeah. And there's probably on the order of a couple of hundred of marketplaces that we haven't heard of where people are actually maybe doing a good job.
0:44:41 And, um, yeah. I mean, And it must have been stuff to go, right. Because of the big ones. Yeah. Yeah.
0:44:49 No, but by dollar volume, it's like 95% San Francisco and by volume, it's still 70% San Francisco. I see. The biggest  Groupon was started in Chicago, for example.
0:45:07 Um, did you work with Joyce at Groupon? Well, my career, um, uh, and then the China environment for a year, four years.
0:45:22 So I've only been in like, uh, Yeah. You, you, you just love like a 3d visualizations of things we hate.
0:45:34 No, we hate 3d because 2d that. Sorry. Yes, that's right. It's really hard. According to the  like no one ever can understand that  That sounds right.
0:45:52 That sounds right. Um, so, um, I, I need to know what you're building, uh, or what you have the intention of building before I can answer this question.
0:46:09 And  The company in the  Climate tech. Okay. Well, um, Yeah, Joyce ran Alaris early on her and the CTO like set it up back in the day, You know what we used air table too.
0:46:28 So we have an air table login, um, and there were some benefits to using air table, but, um, uh, but ultimately it actually was harder for our staff to understand than other things where then like Google sheets.
0:46:46 Um, so do we have Google sheets? Yes. We use Google sheets. Uh, we use Google calendar. We use Google notes.
0:46:56 We use slack, we use zoom loom, uh, and team viewer. So, uh, generally speaking, everybody has two screens, uh, and there's ways to sort of drop into audio there's ways to drop into video.
0:47:12 There's a way to do video documentation. And then, um, we iterate our product on this, uh, on this platform called bubble.
0:47:23 Oh, So we use bubble, um, and we hook it up to Python and we also hook it up to, um, zaps.
0:47:36 So basically like our Alexa app, if somebody say orders, a cheeseburger on our Alexa app, you know, it just zaps us the order into slack.
0:47:46 And then, so, and then, so someone can, can manually do it, but, um, between, uh, between Google sheets, Zapier, uh, bubble Python.
0:48:03 Yeah. We, we were basically able to, we used to have react, but we got rid of react. Yeah. Because We just do it Exactly.
0:48:11 It's why. And a lot of, a lot of the purists would say things like, oh, performance, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
0:48:17 And you know, it's like Moore's law and rights law. I'm like compounding at 40% not worrying about it. So I just like, don't worry about that.
0:48:28 And now our performance it's like our performance when we first built, it was like over a second on, on our search page.
0:48:34 And people were like, this is too slow. And I was like, give it time. And like, literally math will solve itself.
0:48:40 And, um, and then, you know, over time our website just became faster and faster and faster. And now no one gives a s**t.
0:48:48 You know what I mean? Like, thank God we didn't invest all those resources into like trying to speed up bubble.
0:48:54 Yeah. Uh  Yeah. CloudFlare gets faster compression, codecs get faster, just like everything gets better. And it's been compounding since the 1960s at roughly 40% per year.
0:49:11 So, you know, w w one of the other things that we were able to do, and this has nothing to do with you, with making you a multi local, but I'll, I'll just, I guess I'll tell you  I would never, I'm not going to sit down like that.
0:49:31 And like the coolest thing I would ever use, like carbon credit marketplace, that's like saturated market right now. So I'll be something like heart attack.
0:49:42 Well, listen, if you, if you're ever looking for an advisor, um, let me know. I like, I like your, I like your style.
0:49:49 I like your energy. And I would find a costless to advise you. Awesome. Yeah. Um, yeah. And I'm always just super interested in, like, I kind of have thoughts on like, okay, I ever run a company.
0:50:05 I want it to be as lean as possible because it could get even at a hair kind of like higher end, you bought the product.
0:50:16 It's like you to do everything already for you. Like two people, you probably run like 80% of it. And then that half of the Polish, like recent college grad, I'm like, I don't know in, I'll be honest with you.
0:50:31 It's pretty hard to get away from that. Because as soon as you, when you give up control to someone who's more engineering minded, um, they generally love to solve problems.
0:50:43 And so they, they stop being customer centric and they stop getting like tech centric. And so it's, it's a problem that's inherent in kind of like hiring a tech guy to do tech stuff that they, they, uh, they love the struggle.
0:51:00 You know what I mean? , I've worked at companies all my life and I'm like, I would never wrap my own plot.
0:51:11 Why would I feel these more? Like, why would I be able to watch, you know, Lamar or whatever. Right. And then I'm more like a comfortable, which probably means like, yeah, like something instead of like, Well, yeah.
0:51:28 So, and, and, and so, you know, when your compensation start, when you're thinking through your compensation strategy with anybody who's helping you, because the issue is when you were working alone.
0:51:39 Yeah. All of these decisions are really easy, but when you're working with other people, they're like, Hey, bro, what about my intuition?
0:51:47 Yeah. Right. And then, so you do have to like give up some of that control. So if you find other people who are like you, and then you co-found something in, in our case, this marketplace, it really does take a team of people because like not, everyone's going to be good at design.
0:52:06 You know what I mean? Some people not, everyone's going to be good at Python, even. So when you, when you go across the different things that you need, like customer centric support, or, um, understanding sort of the financial impact of things, I would say like 50% of our company kind of like is a bit more on the, on the soft skills.
0:52:28 And 50% of our company is more on the hard skills. And there are, of course, exceptions people like you, who can, who can sort of do both.
0:52:35 Uh, but they tend to be really expensive. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. How are you hiring? Um, uh, let's see. Well, probably The Detroit hiring.
0:52:52 Really good. Yeah. So, so if you are holding period on Detroit hires is two years or greater, then what you can do is you can teach them San Francisco culture, um, over the course of those two years.
0:53:10 But if what you're expecting is that they're gonna jump in and start helping you. They're really going to jump in and start hurting you more than they're going to start helping you.
0:53:19 Um, because instead of value and uniqueness, they often value standardization. And so they're not in search of the unique thing that really solves the customer problem.
0:53:31 They're in search of stopping iteration. They're like, what can we do? So we can f*****g stop thinking when, So my brother has computer science class to read through it really impressive.
0:53:52 But the thing is like, not all of them want to work and I'll be back in the move from the bay area or whatever.
0:53:58 Yeah. I'm alone. Like, Michigan's like a very rooted place. I just feel like there's maybe some arbitrage in there you get someone right out of college from like CS, like the hackathon community.
0:54:17 They're like, oh, I'll just get a little code, whatever. Right. Yeah. So I think, you know, every company is built differently, but I started quantitative finance society at NYU, um, about like 12 years ago.
0:54:29 And now it's the largest club. Um, at NYU, it's got 400 members and 120 come to each meeting. And so, uh, we actually hire out of quantitative finance society because you know, those people kind of, um, they're, they're interested in outcomes and impact and, and all that stuff.
0:54:47 And they're, they're ambitious and not scared to try. Uh, so it, two of our members right now are from that funnel, uh, two of the, two of the members of staff.
0:54:58 Uh, okay. And then you can list them like way other offers or is it like you sell them for you?
0:55:08 You give them like a really good option. Um, well I think they like our mission. And so we ask them to perform an exercise where they force rank eight benefits and being part of the mission ends up being benefit one or two for almost all of them.
0:55:35 So just feeling like they're part of making history or changing the future is, is a pretty big motivator. Uh, That's not how it was originally originally.
0:55:47 I mean, it's, it's like, uh, they say, you know, you you're spending a ton of money. It's probably not that efficient.
0:55:54 The people that you're able to get originally aren't as good as those who sort of trade up. And it's like other companies like Netflix and, and Zappos and others, you know, they report that basically you go through this really difficult time and, um, your diehards stick around and your, your blowhards kind of leave.
0:56:17 And it, at first it kind of sucks, but then it's really glorious because, because seed is so strong. And so your relationships are so strong.
0:56:26 So because we lived through basically Corona, like business traveler bookings during Corona virus, um, it's sort of a different, um, yeah, it it's just cut from a different cloth than we were, uh, in, in 2019.
0:56:47 Yeah. That makes sense. Hmm, cool. Um, totally random. Uh, I, uh, saw that on your LinkedIn. You were at the Front.
0:56:59 Yeah. Yeah. I had this like professor express. I don't know if you've ever had a heat Stefan by law. You do have the immediate, like video compression algorithm company.
0:57:13 Oh, I've seen his face. Oh, he did. Wavelets yeah, yeah, Yeah. Here's the hilarious part.  so yeah, the whole startup thing was just starting.
0:57:28 He taught a course on commercializing technology and it was like hilarious. Like the French tech it's like much better now, but like, it was so like kind of fringe after Are you in San Francisco right now?
0:57:47 Is that, um, there's a space. I dunno if it's still open. Um, it's called, uh, Paris Soma Parasoma and it's on like mission and 10th.
0:58:02 I think somewhere really close to the Uber headquarters Uber's headquarters before they moved them. Um, my sister works for Uber by the way.
0:58:13 Uh, so that's, uh, uh, French tech incubator And, um, you can have access to that space through this thing called desks desk pass, which is a market place.
0:58:31 And that sounded like the space as well. Yeah. Do you know the liquid space people? I don't know. Yeah. I met them at ecosystem, which is another, uh, sort of, Uh, marketplace, uh, Congress.
0:58:46 I'm sorry. The system ecosystem was a coworking space right next to the LinkedIn offices. So like 50% of the people who used that space were actually LinkedIn people, LinkedIn sort of like would said, said, you could either be in our office or you can be in this coworking space.
0:59:05 And so a lot of LinkedIn people chose to be in the coworking space Or like, I haven't been there for a while.
0:59:12 So, um, yeah, I basically, I got engaged in Mexico city to my now wife and then a month later coronavirus.
0:59:22 And so I learned my lesson about living in two places, uh, which is that it's good in non pandemics. Yeah, That's true.
0:59:31 Yeah, yeah, yeah, no, that's the lawyer. How do you meet or what? Um, so I actually met her through Tinder and she was the first person that I met here and, um, I didn't know, she's blonde, so I didn't know that she was going to be Jewish.
0:59:51 And then after we had like a Tinder date or two, I was like, you basically, you tricked me. Like, I wasn't, I wasn't looking for long-term.
1:00:01 I was S I was specifically, you could tell from my profile, I was interested in short term. And, um, you know, when, uh, when an opportunity of that caliber just like falls in your lap, you know, you know, and let that go Double down.
1:00:17 Yeah. But listen, I think what we need to do is we gotta, we gotta have another let's, let's talk again.
1:00:24 I'd love to, you know, in, in any other way, whether it's tech-related or, or with our product and in particular, but I actually have to go because I have to, uh, I have to jump to another meeting.
1:00:35 Yeah, No worries. Yeah. And then let me know, like what kind of talent you want to get more larger networks, like , You know what we should talk.
1:00:51 Okay. See that 
