Susan / Bryant customer call
0:01 Hi, is this Susan? I'm good. How are you doing? Good. Good. Thank you so much for reaching out. Yeah, of course.
0:11 Yeah. I have a question I wanted the room for, or the space for a friend of mine who was coming from Oregon.
0:19 It might be one month or two months. So is that something that you would be willing? So, uh, so I'm looking for a guest who would need this space basically for any non-continuous set of nights.
0:35 So like part of the week, each week or part of the month, each month is a, would your friend be looking for something full time?
0:43 Like seven nights a week? I mean, I can have her stay with another friend of mine. So the night that you need the place, the place, is it a full apartment or is it a bedroom?
0:55 Uh, so it's a, the list that, so I'm actually marketing the space that you reached out to me about, um, for, uh, the host of Rita, uh, and it's actually a room within a condo.
1:08 Okay. So it's a one bedroom work. Can she, what about a bathroom? Uh, yeah, there's a, so she'd have her own private bath, a private bath and then a private room within a condo.
1:20 Okay. Would somebody else be in the place when she's there? Uh, I'd have to double check with Rita on that.
1:27 Um, yeah, that's something I can get back to you on. I can confirm with her and, and see who else is in the space currently.
1:35 Okay. So there's going to be like for a short, for a short time. Uh, it'd be a one month or two months, so it's not going to be every, Okay, so you said, yeah, like one to two months, and then there would be, um, Rita would require a 30 night minimum, um, which it sounds like if you were to do like five nights a week, would, um, likely be something that I read.
2:00 It would be interesting in interested in so five nights a week for like two months would be something that would, could work.
2:07 Uh, so I can talk to her about that. So you said one to two months and then, um, when would you be, or when would she be looking to start?
2:14 Hi, can I show me as I can get her a place, the room? I do have to see the room before she puts her tickets.
2:22 I have to go and see the space and just to make sure that everything is legit. You know how sometimes people give you all kind of run around before she books a ticket.
2:34 I like to see the place and I can give you a deposit on her behalf and she, uh, she's ready to come whenever I can find her spot.
2:42 Got it. And Susan, can you hear me, Susan? Me? Yep. Can you hear me? No, I, yeah. You're you're back.
3:05 I can hear you. Can you hear me? Yes. I can hear you. She can book and come whenever I can find her the space, but I do have to see the room and the bathroom first.
3:16 So, um, it wouldn't be, we wouldn't allow Rita. Wouldn't allow to see the place before booking. However, there would be, um, something set up where if you come the first night and it's not something, um, that would work, you have the flexibility to cancel then, but just for the security and privacy of the space, it wouldn't be able to be, uh, seen ahead of time or before, uh, the booking.
3:42 Yeah, No, I understand that she's going to come from Oregon. I don't want to have to book a ticket and come if, since I'm not here now, If I like the room in the bathroom, I can, should have pictures.
3:58 And she said, it's okay. I'll give you the deposit right there. And that, okay. Yeah, I can. So I'll talk to just once again, so you said one to two months, um, and then I Do five days a week And then would there be a preference for those days, like weekdays, uh, or would there be like a production It's Monday to Friday will be better that we should get, she's going to be out most of the day, you know, she's has done disappointment and all I'm setting up all appointments for her.
4:31 Okay. So That would work and she could stay with a friend of mine if he need the space on the weekend, that would work.
4:39 I mean, I'm making it. Okay. I'll talk to, um, Rita, I'll be in contact with her and I can keep you, uh, keep you updated there and yeah, let you know what she says Exactly the Address.
4:55 So I can give you a close cross streets. Yeah, yeah. Um, it looks like it is Real estate Agent. Uh, I'm not, I actually work for a company called split lease and we help yeah.
5:10 Posts and multi local. So like the, uh, like the situation I described, basically any non-continuous set of nights. So like I said, part of the week or part of the month, each month.
5:21 Um, so, uh, it looks like it's close to, uh, Pally said avenue and 32nd street. Um, That's uh, we Hawkin.
5:35 Okay. Okay. So that's close to the tunnel. Uh, yep. Yes, it is close to the Lincoln tunnel. Yeah. Okay. So, uh, do you do background check?
5:45 Like if I have space and I went and rented yes. Do you do a back check on the people who come in to stay at the place?
5:53 Yeah. Yes, we will. Vet, uh, we'll vet, the guests and other things we can do as well as, um, a lot of times we work with, uh, business guests and business travelers and like getting, getting their LinkedIn, oftentimes we'll, uh, be able to provide like their social media, their LinkedIn, as well as any other information, uh, that you'd, that you would want to see or ask for.
6:18 Oh, okay. Brian, so maybe I'll use the info session, Certainly. Yeah. And in fact, if you had your space listed somewhere else, um, I can actually, if you want it to share the link with me, what I could do is take that and create the listing for you.
6:35 And from there, I could share with you your account so you could access your listing. Um, but like the listing creation, I'd be happy, uh, happy to do myself, as long as you had the information for the listing or a link to other listing on another site.
6:50 Oh, okay. Then that would be good. Okay. So I'll reach out to your father since, let me see if I can get my friend.
6:57 Yep. Sounds good. I'll be in, I'll be in contact with Rita. And like I said, I'll, I'll keep you updated.
7:04 Awesome. Yep. You have a good rest of your day, Susan. All right. Let's see. I do not.
