Taline / Bryant
0:00 Yeah. Hello? Is this, is it too lean? Hi, this is Brian from Craigslist. Good to be talking with you. I'm doing well.
0:35 How are you? Oh, don't coming home from traffic. You said, Well, that's not very fun, but, um, I'm glad, I'm glad we got the time to talk.
0:52 Uh, I'd love to hear more about your situation and what you're looking for. Um, so yeah, I'll, I'll let you talk and, uh, I'll be listening to, I just wanted to know, like that, is it for a certain time?
1:06 It's a couple of times a week. Yeah. So it's flexible. So I'm actually marketing the listing for the host, whose name is Ken?
1:19 So, uh, I help Ken find, um, what we call like repeat renters or multi local guests. Um, so people really like it's a bit flexible.
1:30 So whether your need, like part of the week, each week, part of the month, each month, any sort of like irregular, um, repeat, um, repeat stay.
1:41 Uh, so like typically some type of person that I help a lot is like a hybrid worker. Someone who just needs a space for two to be near their office during their in office stays.
1:51 So like Monday to Friday, each week as an example. But, um, like I mentioned also like couple of weeks a month, uh, each month is something else that I've, um, worked with.
2:03 So really just any sort of, non-continuous a repeat stay if that makes sense, Because what I'm really looking for something for like two months.
2:13 Um, <inaudible> where I am not once when the course is on November 1st. So I think that might I talk to them on to stay there, but I kind of want to remove myself from the situation, just, you know, I work a lot.
2:40 Um, so my kids are big. One of them, you know, <inaudible> so that's what I was kind of looking for for just a month.
2:51 So I just want to know how much would it cost or So would you be, would you be looking for like seven nights a week?
3:02 Yeah, my full time. I just wouldn't want to price and see how much. Yeah. Unfortunately I won't be able to help you with that.
3:09 So I work with Ken specifically to find these types of guests. So he's not interested in full-time rentals, unfortunately. So I won't be able to help you.
3:21 I'll help you out with that Out of the week. Yeah. Five nights a week is, um, likely something that you would be interested in.
3:37 Okay. Five minutes and then I can do the weekends and my mom. Okay. Yeah. Sure. And you said, um, if I can catch it again, you said, so you'd be moving in to a place in December.
3:53 Is that what you said? December 15th. Okay. And then you'd be looking to start, um, soon. Okay. Okay. So, okay. And I just do it like Monday through Friday, I work a lot, so I just really need a place.
4:14 And then on the weekend I have another job, but I work Saturdays, but I can only say on my phone, I just don't want to stay at my mom's.
4:25 Like, I don't want to stay at my mom because my job For me to commute and have to, you know, pick up my son from school far from me.
4:41 So that's why I don't with my mom, even though she has the property. So that's what I was kind of looking at.
4:48 Yeah. Got it. So right now you're currently commuting in and out of the city. Is that right? No, no, no.
4:55 I live in Jersey and my job is literally 30 minutes from my house. Got it. Okay. Okay. Um, also I know Ken, so Ken is a host who has a couple of listings as well.
5:08 So I can talk to him about your situation specifically. Um, and it may be the case that he has, like another, I know a lot of his listings are around the north Bergen area or union city in that area.
5:22 So it may be a situation where there's another listing that he has available. Um, and maybe if this one isn't, but I can talk to him and talk to him about your situation.
5:33 And I get back to you on that. Uh, so there's, I have sort of a general idea, but not exact, just because typically these, um, typically like nightly pricing will be set specific on the situation.
5:50 So a lot of times for longer term bookings hosts will offer a discounted nightly rate. Um, and then also depending on the number of nights per week, or just like the, really the utilization of it, um, can, can vary, uh, the pricing we'll do.
6:13 And let me know if you have any questions about, about the space or anything else that comes up, um, feel free to text me.
6:20 Okay. Sounds good. All right. Uh, have a good rest of your day and thanks for talking with me. That was, yeah.
