Tamycka initial phone call
00:12 Hello? 
00:13 Hi, is this Tamica? 
00:15 Yes, it is. It's eco. 
00:18 Hi, where are you going to tell me the correct pronunciation of your name? Tamika high to me as 
00:25 You were very close. 
00:27 Well, thanks for taking the time to talk to me. So I'd like to learn a little bit about your situation.
00:35 Um, yeah. Anything you can tell me, it sounds like you live in Connecticut, but work in Manhattan, right? 
00:43 Right. Well, basically I do brand ambassador work, so sometimes we'll have activations that take place in the city and, you know, throughout, even throughout Connecticut Westchester.
00:56 Cause I'm actually from the New York city 
00:57 Area. 
00:59 Yeah. But I do live in new Haven, Connecticut. I've been in Connecticut for about 15 years. So now the thing of it is, is that, um, occasionally if, like, for instance, this week, there's an activation today, tomorrow and Saturday.
01:12 And instead of me necessarily going all the way back to Connecticut because they end at like 10 o'clock at night and you know, I didn't really want to feel up to driving at that time.
01:21 And plus I have family in the area and I haven't seen in a, in a short while, so I would just want to like read the, the rules for us to stay.
01:29 And then, and that's basically it, but now my situation, I do have two 
01:34 Children. 
01:36 I do have two children, you know, that would also, you know, more than likely be with me. 
01:40 Gotcha. So, I mean, 
01:42 Other than the fact that like there would be at the babysitter while I'm working. So really nobody would be at the apartment until it was time to come home and sleep.
01:49 I see. So they wouldn't be there alone. They they'd be there with you right. To Mika. 
01:54 Oh yeah. Just, you know, basically we're sleeping and then we wake up, we go visit our family in Brooklyn. 
01:59 Uh huh. Makes a lot of sense. So, um, so I can help you match with Shereen. I'm still waiting to hear back from her and if Sherene doesn't work out, I might be able to match you with some other hosts and hopefully match you with somebody that you like.
02:15 Okay. And that will be the important thing, just that they understand that there are so like my one, one little guy, he is five months and then my other little guy he's six years.
02:27 But again, at the time of night they would basically basically be coming in. They shouldn't be too much disturbance because they're going to be sleep and we're going to be sleep.
02:36 We're going to be tired. Exhausted. You know, I mean of New York city. 
02:41 Oh, of course. Of course, of course. So listen, are you mostly interested in Manhattan? Like, uh, lower Manhattan, closer to Brooklyn or upper Manhattan, which, which part of Manhattan would be ideal?
02:55 Well, so when I did my research on this current event, it was at Madison garden. So whatever would be close to, there is one option.
03:04 That's like 34th street on the west side, west side road. 
03:07 Right? Yeah. The thing is that, you know, my assignments can be anywhere throughout the New York city area. So even if it's like upper Manhattan, that's fine.
03:18 It could be Brooklyn, you know, I've got like an activation happening up that way. 
03:23 And it's just a matter 
03:24 Of when I know that, Hey, I have childcare that can cover. And B I, you know, um, if I want to say overnight, I have a, we have a place to stay overnight.
03:32 Then what happens is I tell my company I'm available and then they decide whether to book me or not. So that's how it kind of works.
03:39 Gotcha. Gotcha. So, um, what kind of, so it sounds like you may have, um, some flexibility in your schedule you want to enable, right?
03:49 Like what kind of schedule certainty do you have, do you, do you know, kind of which nights of the week you're looking for?
03:56 Usually it would be a Thursday, Friday, Saturday, 
04:00 Thursday, Friday, Saturday, 
04:02 Yeah. Around there. Yeah. 
04:07 Okay. And, um, would you be okay with somebody in that space? Not while you're there, but on say a Sunday night, Monday night, Tuesday night, 
04:19 The days when I'm not there. Yeah. That would be fine. As long as we're able to disinfect. 
04:24 Yeah. That's, you know, that sounds appropriate given the world we live in. I think that, that sounds exactly right. Okay.
04:32 So, uh, I think, 
04:34 Can you tell me like, um, what the rates usually are per night? So 
04:38 We go anywhere, we go anywhere between $50 a night and it goes pretty high. Some of the really high end places in Chelsea go as high as $350 a night.
04:49 So it's anywhere between $50 a night and three 50 and that's based on location and, and the term. So if you're pretty certain that you know exactly which nights, then it's a little bit easier to get a price break and a pre price break also happens.
05:09 Um, when you do a package of nights, usually greater than 30, because then it starts to, uh, you know, there's, there's no short term occupancy involved there.
05:19 So if say you were doing three nights for 10 weeks or something like that, we could get you pretty low.
05:26 I think we could get you under $75 a night. 
05:30 Okay. 
05:31 Yeah. So, uh, besides that, could you tell me a little bit about, you know, uh, your need for a kitchen and just other, any, anything else that could make this day more valuable for you?
05:45 Um, let's see. I refrigerate it it's helpful in a microwave, um, kitchen, not necessarily, cause I don't really plan on cooking like that, you know?
05:55 Um, 
05:56 Is it okay? Not a doorman building. Oh yes, certainly. That's okay. Got it. Um, so would you like for me to tell you a little bit more about myself and what I do?
06:11 Okay. So we help enable multi locality. So kind of what you're talking about. And a lot of the people who come to us are people like divorced dads or influencers, you know, like the Bitcoin people love to split their time between Miami and New York.
06:29 Um, and so, uh, another big reason why sometimes people use a service like this besides the new trend in hybrid work in other big reason is that people pay lower taxes in Connecticut, but they actually need to be in Manhattan for work.
06:46 And so they prefer to have a secondary address in Manhattan and their primary address in some sort of tax efficient location.
06:55 And then the other reason of course is, uh, someone who wants a home, like feel for their children. 
07:02 And so a consistent place where, you know, what you're expecting tends to be more of a parent's interest or a grandparent's interest.
07:10 So sometimes grandparents, um, they'll use us if, uh, you know, they don't want to pick a favorite grandchild. Let's say they have multiple grandchildren and, uh, they want a consistent home.
07:23 So does it sound like you're more of the parental sort of parental figure? Yes. Okay, great. Yeah. And I was getting that from, from this call.
07:33 I think that roughly narrows it down for me into places that would be good for you and your family and sort of price effective as well.
07:44 And you know, I'm here to answer your other questions. I, I basically work pro bono up to four hours and then beyond that, there's a small deposit that access kind of a retainer.
07:57 And so I'll work. Um, I'll, I'll send you a couple of listings. I'll try to help you negotiate as best as you can usually.
08:05 Um, we can close as soon as one week. I mean, it's pretty simple to close. And then after things go cold, you know, it's two weeks, three weeks, four weeks.
08:16 That's when you're like, listen, Igor do this thing for me. And then I'll make myself available, you know, for, for what you need.
08:25 But beyond four hours of my time and eight hours of my assistant's time, it starts to become a place where you have to make a decision.
08:37 You're talking about a decision about what or a decision if you want to retain my time more. So basically I'll send you a couple listings.
08:45 I'll, I'll try to get you to negotiate, uh, as effectively as possible. And then usually that's enough, but if it's not enough and you want more of my time, I'm just letting you know that that I'll work for you for 12 hours.
08:58 And then beyond that, it's it, um, it, it becomes a time, you know, a time suck for you in a time, suck for me.
09:05 And then, uh, and then we, we either politely, you know, come back in some future dates or you can retain my services beyond that.
09:15 So everything here, you know, I don't take, I don't take any commission or anything like that, but I just wanted to let you know what I do and how long I do it and when and how it could be valuable.
09:27 So the best thing I can do is probably email you some listings that match your criteria to your AOL account and text them to you.
09:37 And then beyond that, uh, we, you know, we can talk a couple of times maybe, you know, up to five times in the next week or two, and then beyond that, hopefully you've you find us really valuable.
09:51 Um, but yeah, beyond that, if you don't, 
09:56 So it's called split lease. 
09:58 Okay. And then the apartment that I saw that I, um, well, there were several, and I don't know if maybe you were in charge of several, but how does that process work?
10:10 Like, do I send money? And then there's a lockbox and then I have a security code, like, is that how it works?
10:16 Yeah. So each host is a little bit different, but usually it's a lockbox. That's right. And, uh, the first time that you're getting your keys, we'll be there supporting you.
10:28 And your first payment is a credit card payment, and that's just, it's just safer for you to pay through credit card.
10:35 And then beyond that, you can choose to pay whatever way you want. You can either pay, um, basically through Venmo, PayPal, cash, whatever you want to do, but the first payment as a credit card payment.
10:49 Okay. And so now if I, if I book for three days, my first, so then I would just pay for the three days up front.
10:56 Is that how it works? 
10:58 So you would choose a medium term. So, uh, if, if what you wanted to do was just try it. We have kind of a trial night program.
11:06 You could try one night or two nights, and then, you know, that has a fixed price and you can try multiple hosts that way, if you're not sure, sort of which one you like, and you know, you want to negotiate say, after sleeping in there one night, we can do that too.
11:24 Uh, but a lot of people don't feel the need to do that. They're sort of comfortable with other home sharing companies.
11:30 And so they'll choose a medium term. And if you come to the place and you really don't like it, uh, then we basically refund you your money.
11:39 So the first night is the night where you can decide, yeah, like I either love this or it's somewhat misrepresented and I'd like to try something else.
11:51 Uh, but basically the most of the work is done upfront where, you know, you figure out which places you like at which price points.
12:01 And then once you're a little bit more certain, you try to set a schedule. Now we have an app, uh, app, you know, there's a website, but there, there's also a web, excuse me, an iPhone app.
12:14 And you can change your schedule and sort of ask for more nights, but that's depending the availability of the space.
12:22 So, you know, the host would either say yes or no to the addition or subtraction of nights, generally what people do when they change their schedule is they'll remove a night and add a night.
12:34 It's, it's not so much that they're canceling. It's just that they're reshuffling. 
12:39 Okay. Well, that's all very good to now. 
12:47 Yeah. So that, that's pretty much it. Um, I hope that the, you know, I hope that what this is sounds interesting to you and if it does, I'm just basically going to get to work and start sending you some more listings and I'll talk to Shereen about the place.
13:06 I think, uh, it looks like Shareen's place since you're interested in it. And she's interested in having you, um, it looks like it could work out.
13:16 I know it was her place in Brooklyn cause I don't even really call. 
13:20 Um, I have to double check. I think the place you were looking at was in Manhattan, but, um, Tamika, would you, would you mind if I took that question offline and answered you through text after I had a chance to get back to the office?
13:35 Sure. And then what I'll do is I, whenever we hang out, uh, text you my email address, unless you have it, it's Tamika, my first name dot D at AOL dot.
13:45 Okay. I see it here. Great. Okay. So I see your email address. The only other thing, um, is generally more ideal locations.
13:56 So I know Midtown is one of them and if there's another one that's in other ranges, it just increases the chances that you're going to be able to find something at your price point.
14:09 Uh, so if you send me any other locations, I can start to sending you some listings and, and basically we go from there, you just say, okay, I like this one, but, or I love this one.
14:22 Let's try to get it done or something like that. And we, we just go to work and usually it happens within the same week.
14:29 Let me ask you one other question so I can pay to your service beyond 12 hours, but then I can also use like the app called split leads app.
14:39 Is that how it is? 
14:40 Yeah. If you go, if you just Google split lease, you can use the website, uh, the website's entirely free and it has almost all of the listings.
14:51 You know, we're adding about 10 to 20 listings a day, so there's always fresh new listings and there's sometimes a hot deal.
15:00 And let me explain to you why a hot deal might occur. If someone really wants a listing, say a Thursday through Sunday and the host would like the space to be occupied for the full duration.
15:17 What happens is that a person comes in, we call them an anchor. And so they're the first one who has expressed interest in that listing.
15:26 So it's like hot for a little while. And then we offer a special price to someone to come in. Who's more flexible and that person gets the complimentary nights.
15:37 And so if you were to say, um, say, okay, I've expressed interest in these listings, but also I'd like to know about your kind of hot deals and send those along my way.
15:50 The website doesn't do hot deals yet, but it will, uh, in, in maybe a week or two. 
15:56 Okay. Okay. So now can a person, you know, I'm not being procedures or anything, but let's just say, are you doing what the app does?
16:09 So if they don't want to pay for your services, they would use the app. Is that 
16:13 For sure? For sure. Yeah, basically that's the whole point. I mean, the whole point is that, you know, the website is pretty functional and it can do a lot of stuff that people can do.
16:25 Uh, but it can't tell you about the service and tell you about these hot deals and stuff. So, uh, an initial phone call is really valuable.
16:33 And then, um, after about 12 hours, it's not as valuable to be speaking with me. 
16:41 Right. Right. Okay. Well, I appreciate you answering all of my questions, so, but I just wanna say this more, more so than locations because I'm even open to Westchester on the east side, even 
16:57 In 
16:57 Westchester, new Rochelle and just areas, you know, I mean literally anywhere from, I would say Stanford on the east side, down to the city, including Brooklyn.
17:11 But what I do want to say is that for me, it's more a price than it is, um, 
17:15 Location, more price, 
17:19 More, you know, I have to budget for right now until I get these jobs really in full motion and full swing, because like I said, I just had a baby five months ago, so now I'm trying to get right back into the workforce.
17:31 Yeah, 
17:31 Yeah. That makes total sense to me. And you know, not only that, but we're talking about a second home here and not, you know, not your primary one.
17:39 So, um, you know, unless, unless you come from Bitcoin money, uh, usually usually it's a good idea to express that flexibility because we can definitely work with that.
17:51 The more, the, basically the more flexibility, the easier it is to find price to quality. So you get, you know, the highest quality for your family.
18:02 So usually sometimes that can be a bigger space. Other times it can be just a lower price, but just whatever.
18:10 Um, you know, one of the things that people care about is also noise considerations and the safety of the neighborhood.
18:19 Um, so one of the ways to check the safety of the neighborhood, you know, without doing a trial night is to get sent the cross streets and then just to take a look at it on, you know, Google has the street view.
18:34 Uh, so some of our listings they're like right across from a church, for example, and those are like pretty safe locations or right next to a school or, or something like that.
18:44 And then the locations you probably don't want is, you know, right next to a fire department right next to a hospital, th those are the ones that can be a little bit noisy.
18:55 So I, you know, I personally I've been doing this multi local thing for, for ages myself. And so I always thought, wouldn't it be great if there was a place where I could figure out what the noise level was?
19:11 And then, you know, if the noise level changed, like if they started some construction, I could just switch spots. Yeah.
19:19 So one of the things that people do is they'll leave stuff for their kids are divorced dads. Um, they leave toys.
19:26 So we have one, um, he stayed at a host to her name is Nika. He leaves toys, um, his daughter's toys at the location.
19:36 And basically, um, you know, depending on the style of arrangement, we can also, uh, ensure that or guarantee that nobody touches those.
19:47 So generally speaking, we'll, we'll guarantee up to a thousand dollars worth of we've never seen any damage, uh, which is why we're so confident in offering the guarantee, but it's kind of, it's kind of strange and weird to have to, um, take things with you back and forth.
20:06 So all of these, uh, split leases, they, they generally come with storage as well. 
20:12 That's good. And one of the locations like in this like, kind of area, as far as, uh, Westchester and Fairfield, uh, you know, New York city, like, do you have those areas and other areas also, or even like Florida?
20:28 Yeah. It's pretty much, uh, greater New York is where we operate and where we're headed to next is actually San Francisco.
20:38 So it'll be a little while until it's generally that really expensive areas where people don't want to stay in hotels either, you know, they're with family or because they don't want to like, uh, have price uncertainty.
20:53 So hotels will change their prices pretty aggressively. And coming back to the same room just tends to be a better experience, but, you know, people don't need that kind of stuff and say, you know, bump, Bumble, Ohio, or whatever.
21:08 Uh, like, like places in Ohio it's so cheap that you could just rent it full time or something like that.
21:15 So it's primarily in really, um, more expensive areas like Manhattan, like Brooklyn, even like Jersey city that we do most of our work.
21:29 Okay. 
21:31 That's great. Yeah. Well, Tamika, I really appreciate talking with you and I think we covered a lot of ground. I think it's on me to start to send you some listings and see what you like.
21:44 Okay. All right. Sounds good. Appreciate it. 
21:50 That sounds great. And text me anytime. Okay. Thank you. Have a great day. Talk to you soon. Bye.