Tapper S - 9 September 2022
00:06 Hey, this is, leave me a message. I will get back to you and you on through life. Whatever. Be your goal.
00:14 Keep your eye upon the, and not upon the whole. At the tone, please record your message. When you have finished recording, you may hang up or press one for more options.
00:28 Hi, tap from split list. I am trying to give you a call, as I promise, I guess I'm scream minutes early.
00:37 So I'll tag you at 11 o'clock. Hey, Robert. It's How are you? You came, you came up as Robert say.
01:07 Yeah, I, I said your phone number has calld Robert sufferer, so, oh Yeah, my dad. Oh, I see. <laugh>. Oh my, okay.
01:19 So you want to talk about that apartment, which you responded for and, uh, uh, that is a two bedroom apartment, which is available between, uh, mid beginning of October until the latest, uh, January 15th.
01:42 So, And tell me about, so this is my first time learning about split lease. Sure. Uh, I see, like for this apartment in particular, you can select full time, like that's allowed.
01:54 Yes, Yes. This one is allowed, But for most other ones you can't correct. Yeah. Uh, most of our clientele is the people commuters who need just part-time.
02:08 And, uh, uh, a lot of our hosts are people who live in the space and they don't want people full-time or use the place themselves part of the time.
02:22 And the other part of the times they renting it out. The full time is pretty with us. And now, so when it says something like, you know, I'm looking currently at the, the apartment I inquired about, it says four week rent, 2090 $2, if you select full time.
02:45 Um, what does that include? Does that include the fees for booking? Does that include y'all's fees? Uh, okay. Let me just select full time.
02:58 Uh, 2090 $2. Uh, okay. Uh, let me, let me just double check something here because I am afraid there is a mistake, but I I'm just checking right now.
03:15 Perfect. Thank you. What it is to, so 74, 73 per night, that is per, and it is two bedroom. I just don't want to, uh, to mislead you, this is per bedroom.
03:42 Double that Yeah. Doubles that for, for the full apartment. Oh, okay. Um, are you saying that if we only wanted one bedroom, it doesn't work that way, Is that correct?
03:54 Uh, it uh, could, but we would have to find somebody else in the same time to, to take the second one because ner wants full lease.
04:07 Ner goes away for that time and he wants the full lease. So, so this 74, 73 a night, this is actually going to like be before week rent is gonna be more like $4,200.
04:19 Uh, no, uh it's uh, I think that, let me just tell you what I think I can negotiate with the guy.
04:33 Uh, I think it's probably would be close to 3,400, so 300 something like that. I think I can, Okay. That one would be out of our price range, but we're, we don't need something so big.
05:14 Okay. Basically. And maybe you could, if I describe to you like what we're looking for, when you could help us find something.
05:19 Sure. Um, so my wife and I, we moved to the city, um, in mid-October until early January, because we work in Bryant park at the holiday booth.
05:31 Okay. So for something, for those two and a half months, um, we don't need a big space. We, you know, we are very used to, we used to live in Manhattan in a 200 square foot, uh, studio apartment.
05:46 Okay. With a <inaudible>. So we're not picky. Um, but we, our budget is like 2,500 a month max. Okay. So let me, let me see, 2,500.
06:06 I know, I see, like, I'm looking around on the map. I know. I see. I can, I can find something for you and that price range, but that would be on the north side.
06:17 Something like Washington Heights, things like that, especially because you have a dog mm-hmm the dog is, uh, a little challenge.
06:27 Not everyone is willing to take people with the dog. Yeah. I don't know if it, and they probably have, like, they don't care about the particular dog.
06:35 They just care about dogs in general, but I know like our dog is just basically, you know, sleep Most of the hosts, they just don't want to take a chance.
06:47 Um, this spot that is on the upper west side, around 96th street and Broadway. I see they're doing $80 a night.
06:58 It's a one bedroom apartment. Uh, I I'm sorry. I don't remember every single spot on the, on the side. So please, excuse me.
07:08 You would need to, if you want to me to look on a particular one, I can do that. If you can send me a screenshot from what you saw and then I can follow up on it.
07:21 But, uh, there are too many listings for me to remember. I just looked up specifically what you responded to, and that's why I'm prepared to answer the questions, but okay.
07:33 Just sent you an email with a link to the one I'm talking about. Yeah. But, uh, I can, what I can do, I can, uh, go back and look on what we can suggest you based on your criteria and that's probably will fit you the best right now.
07:52 If we can come back and say, you can look on XYZ units and best on your criteria, that would be within your price range and those who will accept the dog Mm-hmm <affirmative>.
08:05 And, uh, that's probably, or maybe we will start with what we think will fit you. You will look on it.
08:14 If you like it, then we will contact the owner and say, would you accept the dog? Maybe we'll have to go that way out.
08:22 But I think it would be, uh, wise for me to help you out that way. And, uh, can you tell me, please, uh, anywhere in Manhattan is good or you have restrictions on the area where you want to be is Brooklyn.
08:42 Okay. So what can, I Think, like, our ideal is gonna be, um, like one 25th street and below. Okay. Until about, you know, maybe the 30th street or, or maybe down to 14th street would be okay.
09:04 Okay. Um, uh, but yeah, cuz we're looking to, So you said $2,500, is your budget correct? And that it for five nights, Right?
09:19 Uh, yeah. I mean, if we could go less than five nights essentially, we're, we've gotten an apartment offer, um, from somebody up in Washington Heights for a like huge place, full time, $2,500 a month.
09:37 Yeah. Um, the only problem is that it just, it, it would be like a 40 minute commute to work and we're looking for something more like a 20 minute Commute.
09:48 Yeah, I understand. And that's why I am asking because, uh, at this point of time, uh, when I take your $2,500 and divided by four weeks and divided by five nights, that is 1 25 per night.
10:05 I'm just giving you the calculations I'm doing in my mind very quickly. So is that something which you would accept or do you need only four nights?
10:16 Because you tell me what you need, because if you're saying, yeah, I want in your email, you said you want Sunday night until Thursday morning say, well, Friday morning, I'm sorry.
10:33 So is that correct? Or do you, is it okay to be only Monday night until Friday morning? Yeah. You know, I think You're breaking up little bit.
10:50 I'm sorry. Oh, limit still. Can you try again? What, how about now? Oh, that's good. Okay. Um, I'd love to talk about this place with you cuz this one, if this one seems like perfect.
11:07 Just, uh, email me. Yeah. I sent you the email. Did you get anything from me? Hold on. I didn't sent Didn't too.
11:17 Robert at split piece. It's at least split. Did you At least split? Yes. Yes. Yeah. Robert com Yeah. I'm on my email right now to see.
11:30 Yep. The tagline is a from te Yeah, I found that one. Okay. Like this place looks perfect. You know, it seems a good price.
11:50 Um, and that we'd be able to, you know, feel comfortable there. Okay. Uh, okay. I understand what, what you are saying here.
12:06 Let me reach out to, uh, the close and see where he is right now. And uh, we'll go from there because sometimes some calls don't update the site as you know, people do the listing and don't bother make updates.
12:25 So let Me, should I, should I click the bid, um, Option? Yeah. The best way is to click the bid option, complete the bid.
12:36 And, uh, also when you log in, there is, uh, uh, ability to do, to fill up your, uh, profile and, uh, uh, rental application, more information you give about yourself, better.
12:53 Your chances that host will like you because great hosts don't accept just the bid from who knows who they want to know people.
13:06 So they always come back and say, what do you know about the person? So if you, uh, did you register on site yet or not?
13:14 I did. Okay. So if you are registered on site, please make sure that your, uh, applica your profile is completely, you have picture, you have your traveler story, uh, and, uh, also if you complete rental applications, that would be awesome.
13:33 Okay, great. So what I'll do then is I'm gonna bid on this place that looks really great. And, um, do you recommend putting in more than one bid?
13:43 If like we see another place That we like to yeah. I recommend to put as many as you see, it'll give me, it'll give me some idea because as I see your beads, I would be able to talk to as beads come, I can contact the host, see what is working, if they're willing to accept it, and please make sure that in your travel story puts that you have a dog because that, that might make a big difference.
14:18 And I hate to make everybody hopes go up and Z, they will say, oh, there's dogs. Sorry. I understand. Yeah.
14:28 It's not, not healthy for you, not healthy for them to be surprises. Well, perfect. Let me, um, all fill out all this stuff.
14:36 And then if you see somewhere, um, also that maybe I missed and, uh, you wanna send that to me. I really Appreciate that.
14:44 So let's, let me ask you, are you, are you flexible on the nights? That is a key because not too many people, like from Sunday night, they are happy to do Monday to use the Wednesday, Thursday.
15:05 That's quite a lot. And most of them using all the using themselves or they just don't want anybody on the weekend that, right.
15:17 I understand that. So the Sunday night might be something which you could give, give it up. I would advise your chances of getting something quickly would much improve if you will not use Sunday night in that scenario.
15:36 Okay. And, and I, I would just put that in my profile. Yeah. That you would prefer, you would, you might say I would prefer Sunday night, but I'm okay with, for only phone nights.
15:48 Okay. Perfect. Awesome. Thank you so much for your help, Robert. Yeah, no problem. I'm glad to help. And, uh, I will be looking out for your bids and see what I can do for you.
16:01 Thank you very much. Okay. I hope you have a wonderful rest of your Day. You too.
