Theodore Matthews
00:00 Yeah. So, uh, you sent me some very specific climates and you asking if we can help. I said we definitely could.
00:11 So let me explain you how system works. So you understand what to expect. Elephant just don't send those away. So I think you, this is the same deal because I also submitted an Airbnb request to, Oh, okay.
00:24 Now, now I am confused. So you want to, uh, you want to rent your place and you want to, uh, you want to rent out your place and you also want to add something else.
00:40 Okay? Okay. That works too. Okay. No problem. So as far as getting your place listed on our site, it's not an issue.
00:53 It wouldn't be done as far as getting you another question. Let me explain you how it works. Is the persons, when, uh, when you, as a user start, the beads, like you submitted what it does, it initiates a process on our side.
01:12 So we, uh, started to mention you was, uh, uh, it wasn't goes to them. Wait, who would have a complimentary schedule?
01:21 So I don't have, I couldn't find on me. What did you ask? Like, was it Mondays was sourced? What, what was that Friday?
01:33 So Monday. Okay. So, uh, if you ask for Friday, so Monday it's means that immediately will start matching you from list to the person who wants Monday.
01:44 So Friday, as soon as we get was that person. And I know it was, it would have gone there, have a request.
01:56 I was at nature. Yeah. So, so what will happen is we are going to introduce you to, and there's all sides of people was a, child's probably, Uh, it's on video.
02:18 Well, it's going to be a zoom meeting, which will facilitate, uh, if you guys like your eyes, Zen, we will introduce you as a path to the, uh, landlord, to, with the drafter of the lease and the landlord will approve it.
02:40 And then see if you signs the lease <inaudible> introduction, uh, first you, and it goes through with, uh, ever something is going to be discussed since Kenji, just based on your discussion and, uh, go from that.
03:01 So you have no obligation for anything until you sign the lease. And the, uh, was the lease is signed. The payments are submitted to our side.
03:17 We call the payment until you spend at least 24 hours in the property to make sure that the purple ticket corresponds exactly to what was advertised.
03:28 If, if by some reason you will find is that, uh, the property is not what expected it would be. Even within 24 hours, you would need to start the process of discussion with us and landlord.
03:45 And, uh, if it's resolved it, wasn't great. If it's not resolved, then you would have a chance to vacate the property and get your money back.
03:57 Okay. The question is, what did I do to have to do with the donor? You're made to be the landlord as a landlord.
04:07 And of course everything is built video. So at one point we'll actually get to see the apartment before I signed the lease.
04:17 Uh, you will see is a park. No, no, not before you signed the lease, you signs the lease and you have this 24 hour period after this beginning of the list to decide that if you want to continue or you want your money back.
04:36 And that's kinda, that's, that's kind of that, but, Well, let me ask you, is this, when you rent your apartment over every Airbnb, does anybody come to give you your apartment?
04:50 That's true. That's fair. That's a good point. Okay. I, I, I, it makes sense to me. That's true. Good point.
05:03 Good point. Awesome. Well, I guess that would be my whole weekend And that's why we hold all the money because it's the same will be, it was a security deposit.
05:18 It stays with split list. A landlord does not get it unless there is a mutual agreement between the guest and landlords.
05:28 That was the damage was caused by the guest. I'm guessing is to the amount of damage. So I understand what your company is, your company and discussion.
05:40 So this is where I spend. First of all, this is where someone wants to run their entire apartment for a certain amount of time.
05:47 But now let's say Not, not for the entire time, it's only on the split schedule. We do not do window.
05:58 Do full time leases. It doesn't have to be exactly Monday through Friday, or can it be like a Monday and Wednesday in Atlanta.
06:08 Okay. With not having someone on there? Well, landlords Lawrence, the full occupancy. So if some nights are not, uh, occupied that's means that somebody would have to pay for it.
06:22 So, Um, okay. So that's why you take some time to match. Yeah. Like for exact match, to make sure that we give you the best price, because what happens here is if you do it on the Airbnb, it becomes a short term rental.
06:39 And now you have to do the short term occupancy taxes with us. Minimum is six weeks full-time list. So there is no short term occupancy taxes.
06:53 So the price immediately goes down like that for us cleanings and never something else. So Airbnb can never compete with us on the price.
07:06 Can you tell me a little bit about how long you've been around and where you're located and what life that's the areas you serve?
07:13 And right now we are serving only New York city area. We are a relatively new company we've been around just several years When you see 29.
07:33 Um, so, so how long, so for my submissions, for the bid, I submitted a date. So when you submit a bid and what is, what is kind of the purpose of submitting a bid?
07:47 Will you let me know higher? Or like, how did that work? No, what's it does is it's some, it's, it's a fact that you are in it's gives us a indications that you are interested in that property and how much you are willing to pay for that.
08:06 I see. So are you, are you at your computer now? Are you able to look at the dates? I said, Uh, I'm not actually the position right now.
08:18 It's Saturday, today. So, but Yeah, but I'm respond because, uh, I am the customer service. I'm responding to my customers.
08:31 I thank you for that. I appreciate you to, Yeah. But, uh, Monday I would be able to look on your beads and the, and we have a April process when all beads identified and we'll look on the multiple bids as the same time.
08:51 And that's why when we usually say, uh, give us two to three weeks complete the process, not, not to find the mesh, but the whole process of, from submitting the bid to cope full signings at least.
09:06 Oh, that's for the whole of you for the whole process. So I may get back with you even sooner, maybe next week.
09:11 Yeah. We, we usually do, as the mentioned thoughts is like four hours a week. So all the beats submitted on one week goes through the mentioned process next to me.
09:25 Okay. Um, a couple more questions. I really appreciate it. Um, so like I said, I'm looking for a weekend, a Friday, Sunday, I guess, as a check out Sunday.
09:38 Um, so would you be able, um, I mean, I went through your website is best. Like, would you be able to, when you get in the office Monday and take a look at some of the parameters, I said, we can find anything else.
09:51 Either send them to me. We w we will. It's part of our as well. We'll look on what your parameters are.
09:59 And we will see we'll offer you, uh, any essence, which is what we will see might suit you, because you might, you might say, and then gentlemen, I'm just giving you a hypothetical example.
10:16 You said Friday. So on Monday, maybe somebody maybe we'll find for you a great deal. Uh, so is this one Monday, or maybe they'll find you a great deal.
10:27 Just, uh, uh, set that is so Tuesday or Samsung Kwikset. If we will see the is just a little mismatch, we still will give you an opportunity to evaluate that.
10:45 Absolutely. Yes. Yes. The way I am your concierge ourselves. I appreciate that. Yeah, we are. Well, because we're a young company.
11:01 We pay a lot of attention to our customers being happy. Okay. Now, do you think this is a popular combo and you think I will.
11:14 I think you will have a lot. You will. I think you will have a lot of, it's very popular. It's a lot of people want to do as a work week and you ask him for weekend is just perfect mesh.
11:32 Okay. Okay. And, um, Well, what I am concerned is your location. If you are starting seriously streaked in locations, that's where since might be a little more freaky, but because I remember you mentioning something that you want to in Justin's at spot them, Justin's at price, uh, also, uh, use of meters a bit, but did you sign up for the 40% discount?
12:07 Okay, Good. You notice the difference between those two. Well, should I? Why don't I, If you keep, if you keep the place clean and, uh, something else.
12:18 Yeah. Basically when we mesh people, this is one of them, cause most flexibility and other one has to be this that mentioned with let's take care of the place and the, uh, mentions a schedule because the schedule must match perfectly to work with the landlord.
12:43 So we're saying, okay, for less flexibility and willing to do some chores, you get a 40% discount. So if you sign up for both, we will meet you in both ways.
12:58 So it might happens. It will say, we cannot met you as a entail, who can dictate everything, but within your price and location, if you're willing to be that deals, you got my point.
13:17 Yeah. So we'll, we'll, we'll, we'll work on it both ways. And we'll give you all options to evaluate. Yes. That sounds good.
13:26 Yeah. I think, yeah, once you take a look here, just keep me updated. Let me know. Of course. Of course.
13:35 Tell me, did you say when you're looking to start, what does your, And, uh, okay. And, uh, as far as the duration, how long you need it, Um, why don't we say, I think I'd put it on there.
13:57 So we'll be biased bottom. We start with 16 weeks, but that's something I'm flexible. Okay. That sounds fine. Okay. Thank you to you.
14:09 I really appreciate our chat and I'll be in touch. So I I'm, I'm pretty sure I would be able to help you out.
14:20 What's yours. Thank you very much, Robert. I'm looking forward to taking the time on a Saturday. Okay. Take care. Now.
14:30 Bye-bye.