Tyler Wood 24 November 2021
00:16 Hello? You've reached out with cell phone. Please leave a message. Thank you. At the tone, please record your message. When you have finished recording, you may hang up or press one for more options.
00:29 Hey, Tyler's a sabot. So I'm calling you as we grieve. See a clock. Um, okay. Give me a call back if you available within the next couple of minutes.
00:40 Thanks. Hello? Hello? Hello? Yes. Was this is a standup. Can you hear me? I'm working on our house? Uh, yeah, not, not the best exception.
04:03 Is it possible to switch from AirPods to normal phone? Okay. Can you can hear that? I can hear it now.
04:57 Okay. Okay. Thanks for doing this. It just was difficult to hear. Well, I understand your table and wait, wait, wait, tell enough.
05:10 I'm in California right Now. It's a nice assigning place compared to New York. I'm pretty sure you're enjoying the good ways of the, Uh, no, whatever it's okay.
05:26 Is it for business or you just Wednesday? I've called this. I said, are you traveling there for business or it just call it.
05:40 Okay. I'm done. You can enjoy it. Okay. Is that this school or the tape? I'm not going to waste a lot of your time.
05:47 So try to be very quick, uh, several senses. I need to understand, to be able to, uh, do the best work for you to help use the best because we, you present multiple spaces which are listed on split lists and based on what you will tell me, I would be able to do the search and find what fits user best.
06:13 So, uh, I understand. Yes, I do. I work. So, uh, I understand that, uh, you said that the, you needed the space set for this Wednesday.
06:30 Does that means that, uh, you spend the Wednesday night and leaving on Thursday morning? Is that correct? Understanding. Okay. And do you have any flexibility in the nights?
06:45 Like, uh, could it be a one night less like, uh, Sundays to Wednesday or Saturdays? Uh, Tuesday. Is there any flexibility at all or, uh, this is pretty much eat what you need.
07:03 Okay. Uh, I'm a little bit flexible, but it depends. Um, uh, yeah, I think, I mean, Saturday to through Wednesday night is, uh, the best for me is ideal, but I'm a little bit flexible depending on, uh, the other person's needs.
07:21 Yeah. That's why I'm asking to make sure that I can match you with people. Okay. So there is a level of flexibility.
07:28 Good. And, uh, uh, when approximately you are planning to start, uses a space, when do we need to start? Uh, the students would be, uh, December, December 1st And be back in the city on December for us.
07:50 So, I mean yet the beginning of Basically, yeah, beginning of December. Okay. That's good. Uh, okay. And, uh, how many weeks or months approximately you're planning to use it for?
08:09 Um, at least, uh, December in January, possibly more. Okay. So at least <inaudible> but possibly more. Okay. And, uh, uh, because the core is a common, so, uh, is, uh, what are your plans for Christmas and new year's?
08:32 Are you planning to use it for that time or, uh, you are not going to be there? Um, I'm actually, yeah, I'm going to be in New York for Christmas and most likely new year's I'm going to be traveling for like three or four nights before Christmas, but yeah, I'm going to be in the city, uh, for Christmas.
08:50 So you need the EXOS Zuccotti mix. Okay, great. No problem. Uh, you mentioned that you have a special project and Chelsea, uh, what kind of the project of that Art gallery.
09:05 Oh, Wonderful. So you obviously need to be close to Chelsea. Is there any flexibility in a vacation like, uh, can you take a little bit of commute too?
09:17 It must be Chelsea. Oh my, okay. Um, I mean, I prefer Manhattan in general. I mean, obviously let me Chelsea.
09:26 Yeah, I prefer Chelsea. I mean, that's, that's why I, I mean, on Craigslist summer, you know, I just clicked search for Chelsea.
09:33 And then I saw that I saw that, uh, posting, Uh, Tell it tells you is the best I am an otherwise, depending on the space, you know, other, other places in Manhattan, I would never consider.
09:48 Okay. Okay. Not here optional. Okay. Um, uh, do you have any budgets you need to fit in? Uh, I mean, I was, I was looking around, uh, 2000, 2004 for four hour, four for four weeks For, you know, per month.
10:14 I mean, around 2000. Um, I mean, I think, you know, the, her spaces, she posted 1800. Yeah. But, uh, uh, okay.
10:25 It was eight in Hungary. It was saying for Mondays or Friday and the UN a little different requirements. So that's why I'm asking all those questions because now when the days are different, I need to talk to the old number and see if this days, particular days are available.
10:46 Uh, is she okay to auntie it for the same pies, including weekends, because we can see usually more expensive. So that's why we're asking all those questions, because we need to make sure that we, uh, given you the correct answer based on your current circumstances.
11:06 So just bear with me a little bit, I need to collect that information so I can discuss with the owner and the, I mean, again, I'm in the rubber rubber know, like I said, around 2000, um, I mean, if it's less, that's great.
11:20 If it's a little bit more, I can't do too much more, but, um, yeah, around 2000 a little bit less would be fine.
11:27 Well, basically I understand, I need to shoot for 2000, but if it would be a little more, I will give you option to consider, then you will decide if you want it to.
11:37 So it just, uh, we are not forcing anybody. We're giving people options where time, basically what we do is split lists.
11:46 We're trying to help multi locals to manage that difficult circumstance and manage living arrangements and stuff like that. So I would definitely work for you guys, so, Okay.
11:59 Yeah. Uh, yeah, don't, uh, you know, don't push, push up the price, you know, without, without a, Well, there was no intent.
12:07 It's not our intent to push up the price because it's not, we don't benefit from that. Uh, uh, if, uh, somebody would be offering a room, uh, would you consider Ooh, or it must be a complete apartment?
12:29 Um, I, uh, ideally I'd have a private bathroom if I had the sheriff states, um, otherwise are, you know, yeah.
12:37 That's my, that's what I prefer, um, when I'm there. Okay. So at least private bathroom. Okay. Okay. Uh, do you have any special requirements?
12:51 Do we need parking? Do we need storage for larger items? Like let's say bike, or do we need the washer and dryer in the apartment?
13:00 Or you can use London map. What's what's your Preference? Nothing like that. No parking, no. You okay with <inaudible> okay. Uh, okay.
13:16 Uh, are you going to be a single users of space or somebody else would be sharing that with you? I mean, not in other days, but during your days, Yes.
13:30 Okay. Uh, another item which I need to clear is, uh, would you be interested to do self cleaning after yourself?
13:39 Because most likely it would be another person using it in alternative days. So you would be kind of, uh, cleaning after yourself for the persons, that person would be cleaning for you.
13:53 So would you be interested doing that or would you prefer to pay for the professional clean? It depends. So, uh, it can run somewhere between, uh, uh, $7,200.
14:13 Depends on the space. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, I can, I can do it myself. Okay. Wonderful. Yay. Uh, I guess that gives me all the information I need to, uh, start working and getting some, some good for you.
14:41 So let me go get to work and hopefully I can get you some stuff soon enough. Okay, great. Yeah. I mean, do you have any more information in terms of, uh, Nina and, uh, and that that's First, first I need to talk to Nina and see if the particular days you need feed SCA, because if she, she was referring to Monday, so Friday you asking different days and maybe is weekends already spoken for.
15:15 So there's no point of talking about apartment until that apartment is available to your specific days. So, yeah, I mean, like I said, I am a little bit flexible in terms of, uh, Yeah, so, uh, it would be helpful if you can tell me what is a little bit flexible.
15:37 Can you give me variations, which I can look at? I mean, I, I I'd have to think about it a little bit.
15:43 Um, but, uh, I mean, Friday Because I can tell you is that, uh, if it would be, uh, some Sunday, so Wednesday, it would be significantly easier.
16:38 It was on Saturday. So Wednesday, because that gives the weekend pretty much to alternative person to use, Right? Yeah. Um, yeah, I mean, I am flexible.
16:55 I mean, um, yeah, I mean, Friday, I can definitely, um, Right now you are not, you are not speaking for Friday right now.
17:06 You said Saturday, so Wednesday, which means Saturdays Sunday, Monday to use the Wednesday. Correct. So, uh, if you are saying that you want also to takes Fridays, that would be No, no, no, no, no.
17:23 I was saying that Friday, Friday. I don't, I don't have to be there. Um, so, uh, yeah, I mean, again, I am flexible.
17:32 I mean, if, if it has to be, you know, particularly as that the, you know, Sunday group through Wednesday or Sunday through Thursday, um, yeah, I I'm, I'm a little bit flexible.
17:44 Okay. That sounds good. That sounds much better because now I, something tied to work with, okay, Terry, I really appreciate your time.
17:56 And, uh, hopefully I would be able to get back to you soon with some options. Okay. Uh, in terms of, uh, yeah, like I said, I, I can, uh, I'll be most likely be back in city or, you know, early December.
18:13 Um, but if the meantime, like for example, uh, you, you or Nina can get the, uh, you know, a virtual tour of that space or another space that Yeah.
18:24 I understand. What's, let's see what space is available for you for the days you need, Zen will be arranging virtual to learn, to do motions if it's not Samsung, which is available today.
18:42 So Yeah. I mean, uh, when there's wasn't there anyway, so Yeah. Okay. Okay. Enjoy your holidays. Thank you very much.
18:57 Take care. Bye bye.
