Walaa customer call
0:03 Hello is this, um, is it <inaudible> Hi, this is it. And I'm talking to you or am I talking to, uh, her, her friend.
0:16 Okay, great. I'm Brian. I'm from Craigslist. So good to be talking with you. Um, yeah, I'd love to learn about your situation, how I can help.
0:25 It seemed like, um, you mentioned you were looking for whole weekdays and then every other weekend, is that right? Yes.
0:32 Got it. And then would this be, uh, or would you mind just telling me a little bit about, um, your situation and what you're looking for?
0:41 Like, are you, is this for work or is this, Um, no, you weren't asked how you should assist me or What was that?
0:53 Sorry, I guess, no, I wanna, I want fish for home instead. I think motion for me. You have already in.
1:07 Yep. So that the room is, uh, yeah, so it's in a story of the place is actually hosted by Dominic.
1:14 Uh, I helped Dominic marketer place and her place has actually been recently booked. Um, but I'm connected with many other hosts and hopefully after this call, tech can help connect you with one of them.
1:27 Um, so yeah, I'd love to learn a little bit more. I want to tell you what should they year, what they want to have?
1:34 Uh, you know, I have other union have one to take it every other weekend as you talk to me and I want it, I want to ask to both, if we make it like this, or if we make it their monthly, how long both options is available for me.
1:52 Okay. Yeah. Typically it would be Is that they thought it was story earlier because they work at the overthink. Okay.
2:04 So this is what I want, but I just said that's okay to be shared for me. Um, and if that was that only, it also it's good for me, but see Me female roommate.
2:30 Got it. Yeah. Got it. Okay. Um, and then I prefer to be alone, but if she needs sometimes. Yep. Got it.
2:43 Okay. Uh, and then, so basically you'd be looking like, for example, you'd need for sure. Monday to Friday, each week and then every other weekend.
2:53 So every other weekend you would need, um, Friday, Saturday, Sunday nights, or just Saturday? Not hiding. Okay. Friday center. Yeah.
3:06 I, I, I traveled to another state every other weekend. I covered, uh, Friday morning and they come in Monday. Okay.
3:17 Okay. Friday morning and then the font. Okay. So you'd be leaving. Okay. Got it. Okay. Um, so I, I leave Friday at the morning because I work, but I didn't, I lose the case and I came, Got it.
3:35 Okay. And that's every other weekend. Okay. Got it. And then, um, um, in terms of, did you have like a budget in mind or what you'd be looking to spend monthly or maybe lately?
3:51 Uh, yeah, unlikely, likely. I think between, you know, my budget is not very big, but, uh, you know, it's between hello?
4:02 Yeah. That was me. Yeah. It's between 600 to seven 50. This is my budget to be, Um, would so, and would primarily, like, you'd want to be staying like really in a story.
4:19 I could maybe other places in Queens work for you as well. I appreciate in a story over there. Yeah. Got it.
4:30 Um, and then in terms of when you'd be looking to start, would that really be If it's available? Okay. Um, okay.
4:46 I think, yeah, this is really helpful. So I'll be able to, um, what we can do is I can share some listings with you just over text, if that works and you can let me know if any of them interests you.
4:59 And then from there I can reach out directly to the host and negotiate the best price for you. Um, another question I have, do you know how long you'd be looking for this arrangement?
5:11 Would it or No? I don't know. I don't know because no, I I'm not fixing yet in this worker, so I don't know how to be.
5:22 Okay. Yeah. And that's all right, so that that's good. Um, and like I said, I'll, I'll share some listings with you.
5:28 You can let me know if any of them interest you and if they do, I can reach out to the host directly.
5:33 Um, and we can go from there. Does that sound good? Great. Uh, awesome. Uh, and definitely let me know if you have any other questions or anything like that.
5:44 Um, and I'll do the same, so don't, don't be afraid to reach out Bryant is my name. Yeah. Yeah. And it's wallow got perfect.
5:58 All right. Have a great rest of your day. Well, you can expect a text from me, uh, sometime later today.
6:03 Most likely. Okay, great. Awesome. Good. Talk to you later. We'll see you. Bye.
