William Romano
0:01 Uh, uh, Well, I really am. How are you doing lo Yeah. Can you hear me? Yeah. Yeah, this is, but from calculus, how are you doing?
0:27 Yeah. So, uh, let's talk a little bit about, uh, that, uh, possibility of that. So you would like to learn for, uh, one day.
0:40 So, so was the, um, the May 16th. So July eight, which is eight weeks. And, uh, do you have a budget which you'd like to spend four per night?
0:55 Um, and I don't really have a budget now. I have to see, I'm just going to find out what's available.
1:00 You know, I can, I can afford it. Well, that's fine. And, uh, you're looking for one bedroom. You're looking for studio.
1:11 What's What, like One bedroom. Okay. That's fine. Okay. And the, Is this a house of yours? Are you an agent or about Actually I work for Splitly and we are marketing a lot of properties.
1:30 So I, let me explain you how this works and you will understand it better. Basically what we do is we are similar to Airbnb, but we are servicing the segments of customers who need the partial Vicks on repeated basis.
1:49 Basically what you just indicate and what we are doing, where I mentioned to people was the complimentary schedule. So if you are saying that you need Monday, so Thursday, we will match you with the person who needs service this for Monday.
2:09 And that will become a full-time lease for the landlord who will have a lease agreement was two of you. And basically as a time when you are not using the property, somebody else's using that property, the time you have a guaranteed storage way since can be stored, you don't have to worry about that.
2:34 He will also be able to have a immediate with was a person that I mentioned you with. So before any lease is signed, you will meet on the zoom meeting, uh, uh, goes to wait, who will be the, on the other times, if you like each other, at least it's presented to the landlord.
3:00 What about cleaning? Cleaning is handled this way. And those two mates, uh, have different responsibilities. This was a person who, uh, is, uh, what we call anchor has dictates the schedule like you do.
3:21 I want, from this day to this day, I want this nice to this nights that person, uh, pays full market price.
3:30 But, uh, he does not have to clean every time he comes in. It's green for him, the person who is you mentioned, goes through, mate, we'll have a discounted rate for the same property, but that person would have to clean before he uses, after you used it before he used it.
3:53 And after he used, he would have to prepare it for you to be clean. That's how it's not. So, I mean, that's the only thing I'm really concerned about.
4:06 Doesn't sound too good to me, to you sharing it with someone else that, you know, when, like how clean it's going to be.
4:14 I don't want to use somebody else's sheets and No, no, no, no, no, no, not somebody else's s**t. Is that basically what it's a yellow sheets, which you will be using.
4:28 So if you, uh, your sheets would be moved and put his sheets would be put on no, there's no such thing as using somebody else's that all of that is going to be taken care of.
4:48 So is there a specific apartment that you're referring to? We're going to address? I, I am, uh, we present, like I said, I represent split list, which is a marketplace.
4:59 Like haven't been big, so I can get you on our website and you can look on multiple properties. You don't have to look on one, you can choose from many.
5:11 And the in order for me to do that, the only thing I need is your email address. So as soon as I get your email address, I can sign you up for the user's website.
5:25 You will. So, I mean, I already got some email from, uh, From somebody. Well, I got it. I got it from somebody who sent me the information about an apartment that was on the upper east side with pictures and everything.
5:42 And it came to my email, I guess it was off a crazy As far as of keg list. I that's what it is.
5:50 Yeah. So I need, so I'll give you my email address. Yeah. Uh, okay. Let me know. Yeah. I mean, I got, I got an email, I guess it came through crisis.
6:06 So let me give you the email ready. W it's w V R L a w@gmail.com. Okay. Wonderful. So was in, It would be up near a 67th at first.
6:32 I want to be near 67th street and first then All right. 60 sevens first hour. Yeah. So somewhere in here that, you know, within maybe five or six months.
6:44 Okay. Sounds good. So what would happen was in a couple of minutes, you will receive an email with a link.
6:51 So you can look on the website yourself, but because you gave me is the area I'm going to hook up, what is available immediately in that day and the lookup for those, uh, uh, mistakes for you and follow up separately from zip files, email, and the room go from <inaudible> find something which you will be happy with.
7:18 And we'll see if that will work out. I'm planning on, um, going into New York city on April 20th and looking, and hopefully find something by that day.
7:33 If you have something I like to see, Let me, let me explain to you how this works. Uh, if you, uh, if you seize the listings, which you like you would need to enter on the website, your bid is a bid, does not mean that you obligated to <inaudible>.
7:54 The bead only indicates that you like it. And you want to see if it's possible to miss your, all your requirements.
8:04 Now is that B allows us to mess you with, as a ghost, because if you want to be there on it, runners and locally it's means that before that we would need to, you need to enter the bead.
8:18 We need to match your resume. You two need to like each other before we send you to any viewers. So viewing happens only when, since I did put 85.
8:32 Okay. All right. I'll take a look at whatever you said. Okay. Sounds good. I appreciate your time. And hopefully we can service here.
8:43 Okay.
