GUEST CALL TRANSCRIPT: ZELLA MYERS
Date: July 1, 2022
Duration: ~8 minutes
Agent: Robert
Guest Type: [To be categorized]

---

0:20 Good morning. Hi, this is Stella calling about the split, please. Is this Robert? Yeah. Yes. So that's for calling. I appreciate you being exactly on time.

0:30 That's that's great. Hey, uh, I understand that the you're looking for some Cinco on, uh, uh, Wednesday serves this card.

0:43 Um, the, uh, you, uh, you mentioned that the, you need it for the first year, because so as the Zen, it will go to Monday to Monday.

0:54 So Thursday that's correct? Yes. Okay, wonderful. Uh, can you tell me which areas of Manhattan would you accept? So I'm looking to, because I work at CCNY I'm looking to be close to that area.

1:16 So where I could possibly walk, how close as your place to CCNY? Uh, well, uh, Zella, I work for split lease.

1:27 Listen, I noticed that you place a bid on our website already. So I saw that information as well, and, uh, I have a number of places which were working for us.

1:39 So, um, tell me, uh, how, uh, if you're saying you want walking distance, uh, how, how long a walk would you accept?

1:53 You saw 30 minutes. What's, I'm trying to define an acceptable area so I can give you the best options. Okay.

2:03 So this is a shuttle from 125th that would take me into CCNY and like as close as possible to 125th, the same thing for, um, 125th and then 145th.

2:23 Lovely. Um, so it's 125th. And let me just, And there's also a shuttle that takes me into CCNY and one 40, the Metro stations at 125th.

2:34 And what do you say? And 145th. Okay. Okay. Probably around 135th, but not the one that was closer to the east river.

2:49 The one that's closer to, um, what's the name of that park? Uh, I can't recall the name of the park.

2:58 Uh, If you give me a second, I will open up Google and, uh, okay. Uh, is that work?

3:14 St. Nicholas Park. So you would like to be on 125th? Uh, so, uh, somewhere in that area. Okay.

3:27 Um, even closer that was within walking distance without being close to the Metro stops. If you have something closer than I could just walk to CCNY that would be better.

3:43 Yeah. Uh, I do have, uh, some vacations available. I just need, uh, to match you with, uh, people who will have a complimentary schedule.

3:57 I don't know if you checked us out a little bit in depth and understand how split lease operates. We usually match two, uh, people with complimentary schedules.

4:11 So it's like, let's say if you need Wednesday through Saturday, somebody else will use the place for the other days, and that will become closer to the full-time lease for the owner.

4:26 And they will sign a lease for two of you guys. So now it will take me probably a couple of weeks to locate the mentioned individual, introduce you to that individual, because there's a way we operate when two users meet, to make sure that they're happy with each other.

4:48 Even though you are not there at the same time you still use the same property. So we make sure that people are happy with the chosen match. It's like you're staying on a street lease.

5:01 Uh, what, what, uh, I'm sorry, can you repeat your question? So you said you were with straight easy or straight lease?

5:11 No, it's not straight lease. Split lease. S P L I T, yes. Split lease and I noticed that you registered on our website and you placed a bid.

5:22 So that's your, you should be familiar with us, aren't you? Yes. Yeah. Okay. So, uh, I need to do some homework here.

5:36 And now when you identify the area for me, that pretty much gives me direction. Uh, you identified $94 minimum, uh, that's what you're willing to pay, but what would be your budget? And I'm not trying to overcharge you.

6:00 I'm just trying to make sure that I can find a suitable location for you because when we are doing this pairing, we need to get to the full time lease for the landlord.

6:15 So let's say if you need two nights and somebody needs five nights, that's the best case scenario, but sometimes somebody needs only four nights.

6:26 In that case, we would have to go a little higher per night to make it work for the landlord. So what would be your budget?

6:34 Per night. What would be not to exceed? I see. Okay. Okay. Uh, I think I have what I need.

6:50 And the, uh, your email was, uh, hold on. Let me open it. Yeah.

7:21 Your email is mwhite494@gmail.com. Is that correct? Yes. Correct. And how do you spell your last name? It's Myers. M Y E R S. Okay, nice.

7:42 Okay, Zella, thank you so much for your time. I hope I would be able to get some stuff for you.

7:49 I noticed that you needed the check in at 7/20, so we have decent amount of time to get things going.

8:01 Okay. I'll be in touch. I'm going to send you an introductory email with all my contact info.

8:09 So feel free to contact me if you have any questions. Thank you. Bye.

---

KEY BEHAVIORAL OBSERVATIONS:
- Location-specific requirements (CCNY proximity, 125th-145th St, near St. Nicholas Park)
- Part-time housing need (Wednesday-Saturday pattern)
- Budget conscious but flexible on price per night
- New to Split Lease concept (needed explanation of matching process)
- Commuter/work-driven housing need
- Prefers walking distance to workplace
