Zella Myers - 1 July 2022

0:20 Good morning. Hi, this is Stella calling about the split, please. Is this Robert? Yeah. Yes. So that's for calling. I appreciate you being exactly on time.
0:30 That's that's great. Hey, uh, I understand that the you're looking for some Cinco on, uh, uh, Wednesday serves this card.
0:43 Um, the, uh, you, uh, you mentioned that the, you need it for the first year, because so as the Zen, it will go to Monday to Monday.
0:54 So Thursday that's correct? Yes. Okay, wonderful. Uh, can you tell me which areas of Manhattan would you accept? So I'm looking to, because I work at CC and why I'm looking to be close to that area.
1:16 So where I could possibly walk, how close as your place to CC amla? Uh, well, uh, Zola, I work for split.
1:27 Listen, I noticed that you place a bead on our website already. So I saw that information as well, and, uh, I have a number of places which were working for us.
1:39 So, um, tell me, uh, how, uh, if you're saying you want walking distance, uh, how, how long ago would walk, would you accept drawing?
1:53 You saw 30 minutes. What's, I'm trying to define an acceptable a so I can give you the best options. Okay.
2:03 So this is a shuttle from one 25th that would take me into CC and Y and like as close as possible to 1 25, the same thing for, um, one 25th and then 1 45, 1 45.
2:23 Lovely it. Um, so it's one 20 fifths. And let me just, And there's also a shuttle that takes me into CC get black and one 40, the Metro stations at one 25th.
2:34 And when, what do you say? And one 40 feet. Okay. Okay. Probably a 1 30, 1 30 fifth, but not the one that was closer to the east river.
2:49 The one that's closer to, um, what's the name of that park? Uh, I can't recall the name of the park.
2:58 Uh, If you give me the second time, I will open up Google and, uh, okay. Uh, is that work, which was, yes.
3:14 Nico is back. So you would like to be one sweaty few, so on 20 fifths? Uh, so, uh, some suit okay.
3:27 In that area. Okay. Um, even closer that was within walking distance without being close to the Metro stops. If you have something closer than I could just walk to CCA, why are all the three seven?
3:43 What are you going to be better? Yeah. Uh, I do have, uh, some vacations are tagging. I just need, uh, to match you with, uh, people who will have a complimentary schedule.
3:57 I don't know if you checked us out a little bit in depth and understand how split please operates. We usually match to, uh, people with compliment, they schedule.
4:11 So it was like, let's say if you need Wednesday. So as the somebody else will use at least CEO for us a days, and does that will become closer to the full-time lease for the owner.
4:26 And they will, Novo was, um, signs at least for two of you guys. So now it will take me probably a couple of weeks to locate the mentioned individual, introduce you to that individual, because there's a way we operate when to use goes mates, to make sure that they're happy with each other.
4:48 Even you are not there as the same time you still uses the same property. So we make sure that people are happy it as a chosen It's like you're standing on a street, easy a street lease.
5:01 Uh, what, what, uh, I'm sorry, can you repeat your question? So you said you were with straight easy or straight lease?
5:11 No, it's not stateless split lists. S P L I, yes, but split this and they knows that you registered on our website and you place the beads.
5:22 So that's your, you should be familiar with us, aren't you? Yes. Yeah. Okay. So, uh, I need to do some homework here.
5:36 And now when you identify the area for me, that pretty much gives me ever since, uh, you identify these a $94 minimum, uh, glass bottle 90 are willing to pay, but what would be a budget and I'm not trying to overcharge you.
6:00 I'm just trying to make sure that I can find a suitable location for you because when we are doing this parent with, and to get to the full time, lease for the landlord.
6:15 So let's say if some, if you need to, and somebody needs as a five nights, that's the best case scenario, but sometimes somebody needs only four nights.
6:26 In that case, we would have to go a little higher per month to make it work for the landlord. So what would be your budget?
6:34 I spell night. What would be not to exceed? I see. Okay. Okay. Uh, I think I have it. Wasn't what I need.
6:50 And the, uh, your email was, uh, hold on. Let me open it. Yeah. Information Okay. Your email is M white e494@gmail.com.
7:21 Is that correct? Yes. Correct. And the, some you spell your last name? It's layers. M Y E R S. Okay, nice.
7:42 Okay, Zoe, thank you so much for your time. I hope I would be able to get some stuff for you.
7:49 I noticed that you needed the check in at seven 20, so we have decent amount of time to give them going.
8:01 Okay. I'll be in touch in the, uh, I'm going to send you an introductory email with all my, uh, Cardenas.
8:09 So feel free to contact me if you have any questions. Thank you. So, hi, 

