We are transitioning from bubble to code using claude code cli, and other tools.

We now have 95% uptime on the computers and laptops, headed to 99%
Over the last three months, we have improved our resources by 500%
Looks like latency on the site decreased by 90%, meaning the site is 1000% faster
Our sprint time will speed up to 3 days from one week, which is 100% faster
Equity valuation is up 50% in the last six months
Our values reflect the true behaviors that will cause future success
We still struggle with:
Getting a full code first version of the site on cloudflare
Code based documentation and git storage
Glance bots for context pass through
Internal page design in an AI-native and code based, supabase backend world
Key features are not well engineered and now bottlenecked on me (Split Lease Market Research Report, House Manual Backend)
Internal tools are not yet available and bottlenecked on me (Usability Test Writer, Memory Loom Indexer)
Unclear understanding of how to control AI builds with refinement and lack of hallucination (a process that converges and is mostly monotonically approaching our desired build)
New definitions & streamlined documentation
Too many old projects still in process, lack of time boxing, improved prioritization and sprint grooming
Getting our processes and machine leverage good enough to be able to handle customer operations
We're still going to need to work hard and at an effective pace to take advantage of the opportunity that has been created for us over the last 5-10 years.

Split Lease Values (2025)
:usando_óculos_escuros:BIG SCRUM :usando_óculos_escuros:
Balanced – we believe in building solutions which are appropriate for current customer throughput stage (ie. no skyscrapers in a small town).
Inspect-able - At a glance the source of problems should be readily identifiable.
Growth - By benchmarking conversion, throughput, and speed of testing we refocus ourselves on getting rid of blockers, ultimately to be 1% better every day.
Speed and lead time management - we strive for 1 day scrum and the power of overnight processes
Craftsmanship - take pride in your work, in your teamwork, and in the process to build the best product you can with what you have. Retain only people who grow quickly and achieve goals through accountability and pride
Relentless Personalization – Commit to relentless personalization and continuous innovation, crafting exceptional experiences that deeply resonate with each individual and inspire unwavering loyalty and advocacy.
Upgraded and Refreshed– we zep, delete, upscale, organize, and index. By getting rid of the old, or make it more accessible, we compress search and clear out trash to make space for the new.
Machine Leverage (over busy work)– we believe in harnessing the power of auto-compute (bots), multiple machines (workspaces) and iterative loops (agents) to generate faster feedback loops and more options for us to choose from