4/13 Team Meeting (blockers) Sprint 59 April 2022
0:00:38 <inaudible> And then I can see your face. Yeah. Um, So we are trying to start and start writing your comments and developers while we wait for release, I guess my Lula's causes Issues. 0:02:04 So let anybody else be, Um, I'm recording, but I have low system resources, so I, it's not, it's not a great one. 0:02:18 I'm recording as well. And maybe it's your work now because I don't have my other, uh, Computer, so everyone's salary or should be recorded, but does he, if anyone can answer, that will be great. 0:02:37 Excellent. Are you using tech com? Maybe it's because we're using maybe that's what Google's For recording. Yeah. I sing the children new, anything different or <inaudible> listen, Remember to too, during the recession. 0:04:17 Yeah. <inaudible> <inaudible> <inaudible> <inaudible> <inaudible> <inaudible> <inaudible> <inaudible> <inaudible> <inaudible> <inaudible> oh, <inaudible> <inaudible> <inaudible> <inaudible> <inaudible> <inaudible> <inaudible> <inaudible> <inaudible> <inaudible> <inaudible> <inaudible> <inaudible> <inaudible> <inaudible> <inaudible> Oh, we're ready to start things for writing your comments and leaving the lockers at your experience. And, uh, for today's Spreaker, I think of a similar that one that we did on last week. 0:16:02 So some can join us with this new way of doing icebreakers. And also to know you a little better about workspace, where are you located right now? 0:16:12 So show us, uh, the widows or the out of context thing that you have in the room right now and downloads the story about it. 0:16:21 So just to know what things around you that you want to share with us, and then we'll start with you. 0:16:27 I'm going to share this little miniatures. They are 3d printer, and my best friend goes like, give me the old us person and you can make figures with them. 0:16:41 And I have them like surrounding my second screen. Uh, but yeah, that's one of my weirdest seeing online workspace. What about you? 0:16:53 I can go, this is a motorcycle helmet, which has never been used. And I guess it's, it's the big marks on it. 0:17:04 But, um, when I wanted to start riding a motorcycle, my dad had the thing where he'd be like, sit down, sit down, sit down, we'll have, let's have a conversation about this. 0:17:15 Why don't you sit down and have a conversation? They really existed. This was the problem. Sit down, sit down, annoyed me to not get a motorcycle. 0:17:27 And so I have the helmet for the Motorcycle. Okay. It's a good, sorry with no happy ending or at least. 0:17:35 Yeah. I think it depends on his perspective. Yeah, it depends on the person. So who else wants to share what they have on the way to show it to you guys?
0:17:48 Because I mean, it's not that weird, but it kind of is because we're using, we're using a tray from our kitchen. 0:18:00 Um, so we put it underneath our Plains, but whenever my wife or the plant, we always say that, that the plant peas and it goes through the pot. 0:18:08 So now we just have like a kitchen tray as our main source of catching the plants. P it's a good idea. 0:18:18 Simple Shane Lewis, who else wants to share theirs? Um, I can, I can talk, I don't know how to show it to you. 0:18:29 Basically, I'm sitting in my office needs compute on the desk. Normal pictures diploma says, which belongs to the office. All the ones in which really doesn't belong there is on the floor leg, along the wall. 0:18:45 Next to pictures is a display of solid, uh, documents, which we had when we immigrated here. That's they just got their paperwork, which I wrote for FBI for my <inaudible>. 0:19:12 It's a very real vital piece of history. <inaudible>, that's awesome. That's a physical history. Uh, bleeds. Sam wants to go next. 0:19:29 Um, I guess I can go, I don't have any weird or out of texting that I have with me as a, as a, as like currently, because, um, I guess I have like fluff, I guess I have a lot of things in my room. 0:19:45 I just like the only item context thing I have is, is this a bookmark or a ticket from, uh, from, I guess like a dorm plantation mates I got in Hawaii, they go out back, um, like I had, I didn't have this, it, they used it as a bookmark a lot. 0:20:05 I kind of forgot to use this. And so, yeah. Uh, so I basically like colored this in and drew in like every time I'm like, uh, so it's kinda like station where I do that when I was like, wait, um, the plantation was like was actually really fun. 0:20:22 There are a lot of good, um, uh, snacks and stuff, like really good. Um, I have YSP and, um, so last thing I use it to popcorn, but I haven't used it as a booklet for quite a while because I think I, I think it's because I got a different, I use a, a wooden pocketbook. 0:20:42 Um, so, and I haven't, there's like a paper book in quite a while because I was pretty busy with, um, Bridgeable materials. 0:20:50 I usually use a Google spoke mark for sharing some, uh, Um, well about this, But everyone's wild people ask me about the book behind me. 0:21:09 Uh, this is my grandfather, Uh, and he wrote a book, his autobiography about growing up in Argentina, fighting with the British foreign Legion, finding my grandmother in New York city and somehow ending up in Cincinnati. 0:21:23 Here's a more recent picture, but there's just great family history throughout. It's really fun to have this. He sold the first computer when it was the size of a room, the NEA, whatever. 0:21:36 Um, he just led to such an awesome life. It's really fun to be able to read it. So, Yeah. Very cool. 0:21:50 Yeah. He was also at the university of Pennsylvania. Yes. So you're a legacy. He didn't study there. He studied at Columbia. 0:22:02 Got it. Great. Thanks for sharing your things surrounding you stand up. So Sam, you want to start? Yeah, sure. Uh, I guess like beginning of the week, uh, by word, I guess, like I spread rumors with e-board, it's like all the tasks I need to work on this week. 0:22:26 Um, so I was able to get some cards filled in and get started on those. Uh, and then, like, I think another thing I did was, uh, fixing the teaching's tool function, um, because I realized that some of the, I guess, like some of the workflows were outdated and they just needed improvements that I
didn't, I wasn't able to figure out, I guess I made some progress on it, but it's still, I'm still trying to make it work, uh, flawlessly in a way. 0:22:59 Um, and also like I worked on the usability test function. So mainly on the Philly beds and stimulated message for the forest usability test. 0:23:13 Um, I think like one reason why it didn't work, um, in the pilot usability tests was because of the user wasn't set the user wasn't set as a usability tester, but I was able to fix that. 0:23:28 So I think, um, I think like the automatic deleting and, uh, in the simulated message should work as of now. 0:23:36 Um, and I guess like for, uh, another task did, um, I coordinate with Frederick on tricky, the height of, um, I guess after I'd like the listing page, whereas like too much white space, even though I'm still a little bit white space up, it's a, I'd say it's a significant improvement compared to, uh, compared to like the hunter recording. 0:24:02 Um, and also I <inaudible> fixing the Python boat. So it turns out that, uh, that the bug was up there was nothing wrong with the code. 0:24:15 They said like probably the position of the other, I guess, the spreadsheet. So basically Python was reading from, I guess, like Python was programmed to read on the wrong tab, wrong caught on. 0:24:30 So we were able to fix that and we report the progress of the monitor too. Um, and we also added the, um, the risks, I guess, like the alerts window when posting gets posted or renewed, uh, et cetera. 0:24:48 Um, and also in the court with you were on the simulated <inaudible> texts sending, so we have a template and a text so far in APO or flow, or it's just doesn't have regular workforce support. 0:25:05 Um, and, uh, I guess I forgot to mention that, um, Frederick helped with like fixing the professional email. Um, the issue was because, um, the, from field was at diesel for forced to have, uh, like, uh, like when you're supposed to have every reason would say, uh, I guess like I'm coming task for me is to keep on working on the ITTS tool, like both usability testing. 0:25:29 So out on the actual user side, and then, um, actually began preparing for the usability test again, I guess this will be passed to on the usability tests, um, because it has one, the pilot, one of didn't work out because there was some, I guess that was an issue on our end. 0:25:46 Um, and also, um, tomorrow or Friday, um, whether it through the mobile side of experience with either. So, uh, um, I guess like improving with like the password it's login, uh, what's it saying is that I finished the tours this week, so I had one yesterday and today, so I was it that I get out of the way. 0:26:08 Um, and then Chris quarter of scaling is coming virtually for <inaudible>. So I'm actually pretty excited about that. Uh, and then once it went to the event on Friday, um, I think the name is something about the college venture network or some something. 0:26:27 So, um, so sort of like some sort of like the networking effects, the networking events, I'm looking forward to that one. 0:26:36 Um, now I'm on, I'm also hanging out with friends over the weekend as well. Um, and, um, also when to catch up on some things like Python and I guess, like other things I didn't get to finish, uh, like some of the trainings that I've mentioned here, like the Python tools and the pipe that you, to me, uh, Xavier and ended up reading the sprint will be to finish rejection proof. 0:27:02 And, um, I guess, like I'm dealing with on the book reading of, I finished blitz feeling this week. Um, I'm going to try to finish the rejection proof as soon as I can.
0:27:12 That's great, Sam, same for, for sharing. Uh, now it's my turn. So for the pre-stat, but, uh, so the big enough of this week, I started with a posting a repost <inaudible> last week, and that's not normal because we are, uh, straight forward. 0:27:36 Uh, uh, they remain active. So in them flat was, was weird. So I started all those renewance finally, uh, also plays at <inaudible> as you saw, we received already for, uh, today hybrid. 0:27:53 We will call those Bible testers missions. Um, they, all of them, just one, uh, the, uh, the, the mobile portion. 0:28:03 So I didn't release the whole payment that's part of it. Uh, they also work on clean up some stats on mobile workflows that have Brian folks, uh, associated. 0:28:13 So that way we get rid of that and replaced with Robert info. Um, I also reached out to least to hold on. 0:28:23 Greg needs a couple of times, uh, posts tends to all the ladies mediations and the posts that she probably post. 0:28:30 Um, I also did some training and yesterday, uh, I created this team meeting document. I worked the day, the responsiveness task on the apply to the jobs page, every tear we do the results on it, kind of that space. 0:28:45 And I think in another breath, uh, I created some cards for the Roma after my training yesterday, I spot some things that we can prove. 0:28:56 Uh <inaudible> I think the organization, we did lot, um, I also found listing for William Romano, which is a test that <inaudible>, uh, I showed those tests in within already. 0:29:11 Uh, they call it task will be training pathway eager. After this meeting, we are going to meet, uh, 50 minutes later, uh, the same past on emails with between. 0:29:21 And when we work, we're willing to work on that moral, uh, high Modesto after labor relations that we're going to make probably two more, uh, to check, uh, yeah, what things we can improve on for the innovation, uh, keep boasting, uh, take over from some bugs and responsibilities issues that arise these days, uh, and also pay all these are the tester and close the ads once it's finished the process probably on Friday. 0:29:51 Uh, that's my comment. That's why they decided it, think that the first match matchmaking session, I w I wanted to see like a proposal or the grammar Loma, or know each post launched you submitted. 0:30:04 I want to change that. And it's really excited to see how we are now putting our efforts on the matchmaking. 0:30:12 Uh, I also feel that my work on mobile is getting better. Uh, I realized that today I'm in this, uh, this responsiveness path and also working with some depth today, like we realize some issues, so we put through a shoot, um, yeah, this weekend I'm going to new river. 0:30:30 I really loved that. So I don't know if this is relevant, but yeah, I try to do that every weekend and the <inaudible> trucks and users and what reading, I don't have any Morgan signage there. 0:30:43 Uh, sorry. I slipped on, on reminding you and assignation, but I really sweet my blame, bigger review. Um, I wanted for my second book assignation and that's it for me. 0:31:00 So please, you want to continue? Sure. Um, let's see. Um, I'd have to a new email for customer touch points. 0:31:08 And, um, how did that after Frederick? Um, I did a lot of awareness posting at patch, uh, in New York city and Stanford. 0:31:15 Thanks to, um, federally for post-summit. Um, hopefully that'll drop if that's works well, we'll try it. And a bunch of other outlets, but that was our, um, our pilot program there, um, on girls of
travel on Twitter, um, I tweeted that we were reading play bigger and one of the authors got back to us. 0:31:33 So that was really cool. It wasn't like shut up, uh, on Airbnb super hosts, um, and on Reddit. Um, the matter of concession was really cool. 0:31:44 I was really dubious walking and trying to figure out how to like, align so many variables and the way Igor had thought it through was really impressive because I think we focused on the most important things and made it a lot easier than I was expecting. 0:31:59 So that was really cool to see how that was going to be done. Um, I just started making new Bible video for deal, how to use with a new script and better animations. 0:32:07 Um, I just have a couple of frames left in that one too. So that should be really cool. We can put that up to hopefully for next week's, um, upcoming tasks, uh, Frederick and I are doing an email design past tomorrow. 0:32:17 And then on Friday, you Bernard, uh, drafting look like audiences. Um, that should be cool. What's exciting. Um, the matchmaking was a really cool process. 0:32:26 Uh, I was really impressed by it and I'm not working this weekend so I can sleep. That seems really, really exciting. 0:32:35 Um, I'm waiting a Google apps training, which are coming up soon. Um, I finished super pumped and the dropout, so, um, I D I did all the startup documentaries. 0:32:47 Um, and I'm not reading anything at this very moment. Thanks for, for sharing. Uh, some, I don't know if you're mute because of background noise, but in case it's not, uh it's so, uh, you want to continue, uh, my was, and, uh, the rest of the week mostly was dedicated to customer communications. 0:33:19 I answered emails. I might customer calls. Now this debated with email and landing Mashburn concession bus. I just said that session really inspired me was it was very good. 0:33:38 Uh, when this test was Eagles away, Michael Charles utilities, and that should be included for the upcoming car tasks. Uh, it will be mostly customer calls and emails, because for me, it's a short week. 0:33:54 I am in all the world just to the calf hours. And after that I move, um, what is exciting? Like I just said mentioned a matchmaking session was exciting that they only showed the way it should work because before it was a lot of discussion, but now it was a hands-on demonstration, which is exciting. 0:34:23 Uh, and, uh, I'm going to Chicago to see my daughter's such as well as that there is a sprint, it was, uh, excellent text expansion tool, which you can show me. 0:34:36 And, uh, we, there was a four hour workweek. I wrote a sentence before sharing could be one to continue. Um, so, uh, for your stars, we had worked on a couple of tasks on the computer or implemented, uh, the ability to, so that people who subscribed to receiving email alerts whenever there is a new listing added, um, and that functionality in there. 0:35:06 So now it's going to look pretty much. It's going to look through the database to see like, who has notifications turned on for this. 0:35:12 And every time we, every time we flip a listing to status equals active, not necessarily when it's created, when it's actually turned to app, um, it all send that, uh, uh, pretty much in polar color to whoever subscribes. 0:35:27 And it was the newest thing, um, the right now. And that's, it's as simple as that. It's as simple as, Hey, there's a new listing. 0:35:34 It's not based on any specific criteria, like which area of the city you like, or what price range. So that's something to keep in mind.
0:35:43 That's still, that would be further in development that we would just need to figure out if that's something that I want to get into, right. 0:35:48 Or what, I didn't have had a little school that I don't know, coworker Eve, or on the deal Hardy page or the deal Hardy, you can see the beds from the specific anchors that they're matched with. 0:35:59 And yeah. Um, yeah, I think that was probably one of the things I struggled with to get started the most. 0:36:07 Um, because I wasn't, I wouldn't say this in context because it wasn't super clear myself. I got myself on like, what, how the deal hobbies were currently tied in to the anchors and how to implement that. 0:36:24 So that I just felt kind of stuck there when implementation standpoint or a bit sort of slowed me down. Um, but then, you know, started to make some sense. 0:36:34 So I asked him the questions with, on you or your health a little bit there. So that, that, that first part is implemented. 0:36:41 And, uh, yeah, so then I started looking into above that came up earlier today, where listings weren't sorting based on the cheapest to the most expensive and just sorting by price, still looking into that, uh, they did a sweep of the boats that Frederick published in on channel that, uh, yes, there were, some of them were smaller, some are bigger, but still pretty helpful to have all that documented. 0:37:04 And then a responsive paths of another look of the user page. That page was not responsive at all. It's pretty, pretty rough. 0:37:13 So now it should be fine. Um, then I also shrunk the height of the mobile app for work. So I was worried about first actually, then I remember that the reason there was so called to begin with was because each icon used to have like a text description, but not below it. 0:37:29 So like the home, the home icon had the home below it. And, uh, but we, we hit that awhile ago and we just never deleted it. 0:37:36 So there was room to make, to shrink that height from just the deleting of, in general to that, that actually made it a lot easier. 0:37:43 And, uh, definitely looks better now, upcoming tasks. Um, it's fixed the bond that I mentioned earlier about sorting, um, based on price, uh, revisit one of the bumps, or you're both on Frederick. 0:37:56 That's how your emergency still happening. Um, but continue to iterate on a view hybrid, good page, and a coworker, people were on the bidding feature updates. 0:38:06 I also saw eager that we have a session for usability testing, deep review. Uh, we, I think we need to schedule a coworker as well on the vending feature updates, because there were some questions on there that had come up before that I wanted to work through. 0:38:23 Yeah, I think we do we have that already for Friday? No, cause I've seen it. The least I can be with you from like, what do you think? 0:38:33 Eight, 15 to 9 45. Yeah. That's plenty of time. Okay. That's perfect. Um, and then what's exciting just, yeah, I'm feeling pretty, pretty tired and dripping already. 0:38:45 And it's Wednesday. So Neil to recover a bit over the weekend and we're also traveling to Richmond, Virginia for a friend's birthday. 0:38:55 Um, and oh, one thing I'm excited about is, you know, my, my wife is big on religion and Easter and they do this salad, um, in Poland that I really like if she's trying to recreate for Sunday. 0:39:11 So I'm really excited. And that means that we get to go shop around and try out different principles to just every now and the two, which I also that's great.
0:39:22 Thanks for sharing Louise. Um, you got, you want to continue with yeah. Uh, so I use the task scheduler to audit starting the hub. 0:39:34 First, the report delayed posting already reposting, it's done just showing like that. You can call it a book pretty easily. 0:39:45 You can either call it through a batch file or you can call it inside of Python. As Sam saw earlier today with, uh, with the conch, um, that matchmaking session, um, was kind of cool used bubbles database. 0:39:56 Um, big thank you to Frederick and Sam for populating the data and make the rest of it, uh, relatively straightforward and it's going to make the automation of it. 0:40:04 Um, well, first of all, it's demonstrated, uh, two lane into Robert, but then the next steps become more obvious, which led into the ideation of the, uh, applied to take turns page. 0:40:19 Um, I did upgrade Ram on Sam's machine as Sam becoming more of a power user. Um, Sam and I designed another one. 0:40:27 It can stimulate actions for usability test or it's using an orphan page, which we think will have less errors, especially for very complex, uh, stimulated workflows, which require some back and forth. 0:40:40 Um, and that was a necessary prerequisite to him getting some usability testing on the day change tool, which is something we've sort of wanted. 0:40:49 Uh, but now we're absolutely ready for it. I forwarded some message after curation and I built, um, some texts, expansions to do that. 0:40:58 So common things that people do, they don't have, uh, uh, the right split schedule or they give, um, their email or some other contact information. 0:41:08 And so stuff like that can just be redacted. Like I worked with the caution Sam on the Python delayed send, as Sam mentioned, there were two, uh, two normal errors. 0:41:17 The first one was the formatting of the time column. And the second was hard coding of the columns rather than, uh, sort of giving them names. 0:41:25 So we made it more readable. Um, and we made it less prone to error and also, um, send us slack messages when it's running. 0:41:33 So we know when it started, when it stopped it didn't accelerate accelerator call and then the first VC angel call, um, that actually went really well. 0:41:42 I iterated the apply to take turns page. I don't know if you see this already most, but there's two sections on it now kind of like the, uh, left side is the, uh, listing itself and the nights that you'll be taking and the right side is post roommate and how much they'll be paying. 0:42:01 So, um, uh, excited to fix the bug of, uh, payments of, of the exact numbers there and make those really big so that they can see that they're getting that discount and get excited about them. 0:42:15 Um, I did a small design pass on the landing page based on usability testing, um, comments, um, Frederick's training bloods, like you said, a bunch of hot jars. 0:42:25 And, uh, so I fixed the hot jar. Uh, we had a billing issue. They gave us a week for free. 0:42:30 So that was nice. I read some resumes of potential potential candidates. Um, it's interesting to note that indeed worked as well as it did and, um, test the text magic, but Robert, uh, text magic is another way to send text messages in an automated fashion. 0:42:47 You can pass parameters to it, uh, and, uh, it can be hooked up through his app. So since you've been called as app from slack, you can also kind of automate and pass parameters. 0:42:58 So we can probably send text messages in a number of different ways. Um, Twilio and text manager included. I, um, fixed the video in our usability testing type form.
0:43:13 I actually had to go way back to David Siegel. He used to have a product manager, um, our first product manager, uh, and he had, uh, helped with the usability testing and there was a video of him. 0:43:26 So we transitioned to that video. And, um, I worked on the utility statement, uh, innovation team. If Robert earlier this morning, upcoming, I have, I'm going to add a careers, um, part to the footer where someone can apply to work here, uh, natively on the site. 0:43:44 There are people who are interested in us come on to the site, and it would be really great to know who, uh, that submitted their resume has actually seen the site, uh, because, you know, it's impressive how many people submit their resumes without ever taking a look at the company whatsoever. 0:44:02 Um, and then I need to add, uh, we miss you customer touch point. Um, we're doing an FAQ pass with lane, uh, just to make sure that our framing on how the process goes, uh, is right and we've, uh, identified some extraneous, um, some extraneous language. 0:44:24 Um, and then we'll be looking at a little bit like audience PMs. There's going to be some cards about utilities because utilities is differentiated by hosts and landlords, landlords will charge utilities. 0:44:36 Hosts will not post just give you a nightly price and landlords, uh, give you like a monthly rent, but that's your respective with utilities. 0:44:45 So if that's going to cause the slowest, um, update to the search part-time homepage and the useful at least page where we have to know if we're dealing with a listing, that's a host list of thing or every landlord listing. 0:45:00 And so the that'll update the pricing calculations there. So I have to write some cards for that I bought and did a half of this build CRM in bubble training from you to me and Robert and I have been listening to four hour work week together. 0:45:16 Uh, that's been really wonderful to get ideas on how we can automate and do more with less, uh, and that's pretty much it. 0:45:26 Oh, I forgot. What's exciting. Well, you guys can probably see the increase in bids, traffic. Um, the, you can see it from the usability test and from the hot jars, there's a more consistent experience. 0:45:38 Uh, and because we're saving like the split schedule and a safe search and stuff like that, we were actually able to fill in a lot of the data that we needed for our matchmaking session, which was really cool. 0:45:49 So thank you for that, Louis. Um, and we're pretty close to being able to send out these feel Hottie mattress. 0:45:55 Um, and then I am really excited about this usability test on the date change tool, because it's amazing how it opens your eyes to see it from someone else's perspective rather than your own. 0:46:08 And especially a series of that, because like when four people say the exact same thing, it becomes painfully obvious that, uh, sometimes the way we text, it's not the way that other people will experience it. 0:46:20 And what we want to do is build their best experience. Uh, so that's it for me. Yeah. You got out, uh, we never did it to the blockers. 0:46:32 Now we have, uh, we come to start with the first one is listed from the, you want to give us some funders? 0:46:43 Uh, yeah, there's not much. I just opened my email this morning and it was like, bam, you can't advertise on Facebook for absolutely no reason.
0:46:50 So, um, it's under review now, if for any reason, I can't imagine why I'd be black from advertising on Facebook, but if for any reason it is still black, I can, uh, open a ticket and talk to people, um, and see why on earth this would be going on, but just a little weird It's is weird. 0:47:19 Okay. So next step will be to request a review from Facebook. Um, create a support ticket for that. I guess I'm the next, uh, we had a real situation where, uh, uh, a new customer was a register user as bubble and, uh, Mike alone customer created some beans and beets, uh, came in a mixture of, uh, uh, his name, some other customer, uh, uh, who is started booking on it. 0:48:00 But, uh, it's still unclear what, what will, how to fix it. And, uh, because it is, uh, has to do with leads and customers, which we're trying to accelerate right now. 0:48:20 That's kind of report. Yeah. Maybe it's looking up by the name. Yeah. It was like some sort of name mass match, but then that Louis, it doesn't make sense that some of the bits would go to one user. 0:48:35 Some of the bits would go to another. Right. Even though it's, um, I want to test out the heart link cause it's, so it's a magic link that took them to that page showing a specific name. 0:48:47 So I'm trying to figure out how to replicate, let's say in a scenario, So you can get like impossible that the magic points created above. 0:48:59 Yeah. Or we pass the wrong information to the manager to blink seem like a very random user, you know, if it was like, maybe like we sent that post and that host information for the guests information, something where there's a connection between the two, it would make more sense. 0:49:18 But, um, yeah. Y and to see what the magic link was actually sending. Okay. So Anybody else got anything else to sit on that Project? 0:49:55 Take tickets to the next one. <inaudible> we experienced to us super different scenarios. So in the first sprint we run the ads and the hiring process, and we ended up having deals two testers in the end of the week. 0:50:18 And now we started, uh, super early, even on Sunday. Um, for today we have already four, the, and maybe I just have one or two testers as final and then iterate. 0:50:32 So I'm not finding the right, uh, compensation on the right, uh, way to do it. So we have to just do pilot testers and then we'll iterate. 0:50:43 And then we have, uh, prevalence testers. So, well, I think maybe one thing we could try Frederick is, uh, two flights to that, Um, Where the ones for $20 are where you do it, same day. 0:51:01 And the ones for hitting dollars are the ones where you do it the way we do it right now, except within 24 hours. 0:51:08 And do it within 36 hours. I think maybe we should just try tightening it to same day for the higher pay <inaudible> actually. 0:51:20 Yeah, But it was good. It was good. What you did if you hire them. I mean, hiring them on Sunday, you know, the Sunday, Monday to Tuesday has much less variance, so you can also hire them. 0:51:38 We'll just try to be done with our usability tests by Friday. So you can try a hiring on Friday. There's a lot of people do stuff over the weekends. 0:51:46 So that's another thing. We just get the pilot testers in over the weekend, rather than on Monday, I would say, do both methods. 0:51:58 And then you can kind of over-hire after the pilot, because that'll be a lower cost. Anyway, the loan would be 15 instead of $20. 0:52:06 Yeah. I like that idea. Again, I'm going to start going into type of thoughts and see how it goes. Thanks.
0:52:19 Okay. The other one is also by me, <inaudible> Lewis mentioned on, on his stand-up. So right now we have a funny note that when a host, when a text messages, uh, a host or a landlord, they are going to receive a message that says, Hey, landlord, post both guest, it's interested in your listing. 0:52:46 So now when the, when the wholes answers these two guests, the guests, each receiving this email, So that shouldn't be in there in which says name of the guests. 0:53:01 I guess, name of that guest is interrupted, like salute. Yeah. This message shouldn't be sent. So that's the issue times, Sometimes work on messaging, right? 0:53:23 Yeah. Is this something that interests you? Um, I told them that I can take a look at this. Um, I think this might be, uh, back in this year or could be like the, like I get as, as like the API workflow is short or it's like another issue. 0:53:45 Um, but I can help with this one. Okay. Um, should we have a working session Next? Yeah, I think we should. 0:54:03 That's correct. Uh, we've got, we can schedule after this meeting, but I think tomorrow is a good day. I'm not sure if you are middle. 0:54:20 Okay. The next one, uh <inaudible> and specific parameter in this page applied to take numbers. Yeah. We could get, um, complimented the complimentary nights so that the deal Hottie would understand which nights they're taking. 0:54:44 What we do is we have fuzzy matches, meaning if the deal Hottie wants, like, um, three nights say Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday night, We might still offer them three nights, like Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday night, for example. 0:55:05 So we do a special kind of search in bubble and, uh, it would be good for them to see on this page, what the complimentary schedule to the anchor is so that they know what they're accepting. 0:55:19 So the couple of injuries schedule is not always going to be the remaining native, but it's going to be a specific mag. 0:55:24 So if the, if the anchor has Monday through Thursday night, it's, uh, if there's not guarantee about example, if the anchor has Monday through Wednesday night, it's not guaranteed that Thursday through Sunday nights are right now, it is guaranteed, but the deal Hottie themselves might have a different expectation based on what they signed up for. 0:55:50 Okay. So, or you're asking me to, just to show them which nights they would be receiving. Um, I can definitely do that. 0:56:00 I just, we're not storing that information in the database anywhere right now. Uh, or we're not tracking it. So just as far as which nights they would be receiving. 0:56:12 So I guess, um, the mentoring nights to the bed. So if the band was Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, then you would take the set of all nights and remove the events for example. 0:56:25 Oh yeah. I got a bit of knowledge that sounds populating how many nature meaning, um, great. So, so what you're saying right now is just show them the remaining nights. 0:56:36 Yeah. And just show them the remaining nights. So it's painfully obvious to them what they're accepting. Okay. Yeah. That's pretty, that's really pretty easy. 0:56:45 I think what they also need, um, uh, carousel here for the pictures, like when you've set up it yourself, uh, it's much more obvious what this picture represents, but if you're not the one who sat over the bed, then you might be seeing the listing for the first year. 0:57:06 Um, should we just, should we do a carousel or just when they click on it, have it go one of the little bar that says go to wifi so they can see the bigger screen, I guess it was kind of hard to look at the pictures here.
0:57:21 Yeah. Well we have, uh, um, yeah, I think it might be better to also include the carousel. Okay. Cause I, I think sometimes people just want to click through the pictures really quick and not necessarily go to a new tab. 0:57:38 Okay. But yeah, underneath that, you'll see that there's this new button see listing. I haven't hooked up a workflow so that, yeah. 0:57:50 So that's missing the lane. Um, what do you think, how do you think it looks so far and, um, would you like to review and do a design? 0:58:05 Um, I'd kinda like to wait until that the rest of that functionality is added and knew what altogether, but, um, it's the one he put in slack this morning. 0:58:12 I thought a great, um, if this was show the nights per week, if all the information is presented well and clearly, so if he adds the rest of that functionality, I would ask, I'll definitely take a look at it. 0:58:30 Okay. I think there's also something to do with where we display the price and how we display it. I think maybe like having the original price per night and then like a cross out in their actual price, um, is a great way to show them that they're getting a deal. 0:58:52 And then the design paths that actually be helpful. And even like, I don't think that there's a, I don't think that not implementing those other two things with a lot of the design person that I actually think it would be helpful, then I would design past to see like, what is the best way to display the nights as well? 0:59:08 Like we didn't show the notes and then, you know, pretty easily read it. So it just comes down to like more as the one that design how we want it. 0:59:18 Yeah. Um, so I'll get started and like, come in when she's ready. Um, Louis, would you, um, make sure that they can't click the Knights there? 0:59:30 Okay. Yeah. So they're not supposed to be able to change it, Make it on corners over it now Is, uh, is that clear? 0:59:45 Isn't queer for them the nights they presented to their nights and not the nights of the, uh, right now we're not showing we're only right now, we're not showing their Knights. 0:59:59 So that's, that's part of what <inaudible> to be talking about is how to make it clear, Because right now they're not right now that they don't even know which nights are there as we're only showing the last before we we're only showing the anchor nights. 1:00:16 Yeah. Well, we can do, Robert is we can show the deal Javi's nights in the night selector tool like this big evocatively and on the right hand side, we can just do the text display of the nights the anchor has. 1:00:35 So they can read below that the anchor has the complimentary nights and we'll just put that underneath their price right there on the right. 1:00:44 Okay. Yeah. I think it still would have, uh, I really separated, uh, fields on this. Like obviously the left is for the inquiries and the right bar is for anchors. 1:01:01 Um, So I think they know what are they They're night. Um, we can do a usability test on this proper. 1:01:16 We might do two different types of usability tests, one for the day change tool and one for this next sprint. 1:01:24 Okay, great. Uh, now the, uh, blocker is for me, has a flat nice the last week was, um, yeah, it increased for like 20% more. 1:01:41 So <inaudible> is what I mentioned about the renewals and the reports teams and doing them more manually. I'm also thinking, um, taking the fresh, the addresses that we have. 1:01:55 So instead of, uh, prioritizing the posting being done, if they have to post manually on the, those addresses like large laptop or national to do or <inaudible>, um, I'm doing that.
1:02:13 So yeah, also, uh, the accounts that they're renewing were flagging and posting more on those accounts. So we can also have those postings life or more Bolton died from those accounts that weren't healthy. 1:02:30 Um, Yeah. I think the brainstormed, the why it's also the next step to see how, yeah, because it could be the pages open too long right now. 1:02:46 And then auto hockey just boom, clicks it at some point. Right. And so we probably needed to see that that wasn't gonna work because it's the simplest solution. 1:02:56 Um, but maybe Python delayed send is better. Yeah. Maybe we can do something to simulate human behavior to make it more organic. 1:03:07 Sometimes you do that with random time mounts. Other times you do it with, um, with like simulating mouse movements or whatever. 1:03:16 Uh, so we'll, we'll see what we can do there, but I, we definitely need to brainstorm like, Yeah, Def I also think that it's related to the page is open too long because as I told you like that are renewing where active or expects just renew and, and yeah, it shouldn't, it shouldn't have as some rigor on at least in terms of, of flying or spam because it's just renewing the post that is already active. 1:03:46 I get what you're saying since the flagging is novel with our automation, our previous example was like the control group. 1:03:54 And now that we've been seeing that this is causing an error, we know that's something we're doing with the automation is causing the flagging. 1:04:03 Um, so yeah. Uh, you want to brainstorm during this sprint, uh, for tomorrow or? Yeah, well, we'll just cohort at some point tomorrow or after tomorrow. 1:04:16 Okay. <inaudible> If Sam wants to co-work with you from nine 30 until 10 30, then I can take after that in the morning if you want or I'll leave that up to you guys. 1:04:36 Yeah, for sure. Okay. Uh, next one is from Robert Keegan able to send messages. Do you want to share more conduct storage? 1:04:53 Well, uh, when I see is, uh, the, the use of <inaudible>, uh, there's no way for me to, for that and use that actually many anyway. 1:05:07 So the question should we ask the year before then blogging, maybe a and tied to send message. It should pop option, come up, give them to login with login before sending a message or something. 1:05:26 Okay. So when they're not logged in and they send a message, uh, they have to write in their email address. 1:05:35 So that email address is on the message. So actually I can just team envelopes out the keyboard and I'll just show Robert where the email is. 1:05:45 Well, I saw the Humira desk. I just don't know what, how to handles after that, because we don't see the message it stopped. 1:05:54 We just see, well, they might subscribe them to marketing material or something like that. You, you can try reaching out to them, but it might be just easier, better to create a customer touch point. 1:06:08 That's like a drip campaign for them. Okay. And we'll have random Pittsburgh relevant. Okay. The next one. And I noticed that on the usability test, uh, pretty much none of the usability testers or able to manage their bids, uh, through the mobile app. 1:06:41 Nope. Uh, so that's pretty significant that, that they weren't able to do that. And I think it's going to require a little bit of care here cause that's integral to they experience.
1:06:58 I think one of the things, Uh, we can do is move, have the big stuff to be at the home page on the mobile app. 1:07:11 If you could. I know that they need to click into another tab to see all the information, but the reality is if you don't have a list, we don't have a reservation yet. 1:07:25 The most important thing to do is to try to get one. And that's the challenge to do that. Yeah. I think, I think that would be good. 1:07:38 Um, it's a small enough thing that we could do it today and then see the usability testers that come through at the end of the sprint and see if they are able to manage their it's. 1:07:51 I saw the student today that, uh, this person bleak that display old menu on the mobile and you can see the reservation bids. 1:08:01 Um, so titled the plea, um, when they click that nothing happened. So maybe they shoes, uh, not bought on doesn't have the workflow associated to mandate that page. 1:08:12 Uh double-check I can take a look at that. It's it's the mobile app mobile menu. It's the mobile version of the browser, I think. 1:08:22 Oh, okay. So it's the web map. Responsive for mobile. Okay. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Okay. So that, that's what you're saying. 1:08:33 And you're saying in the web app, responsive mobile menu, Mike, it doesn't take you to the right place. No, it doesn't do anything it's like this. 1:08:45 So I'll do that. Yeah. That's right now. Uh, the next one is, uh, we are getting clicks outside of the <inaudible> ads. 1:09:11 So Yeah, I'm having trouble with that. Except I maybe got home with me at Buena, uh, research on how Google ads work and see if we can send them properly. 1:09:34 Okay. Do you want to research Google ads? Why they get clicked onsite? I'm pretty certain that there's a way to filter either filter out or filter in the geographies. 1:09:47 We already have that turned on For like the customized. Um, I think so, but, um, But it must not be, you know, we, we have certain areas of the United States that we target and we definitely dumped target outside of those areas, but I don't know if we exclude other countries in any direct way and your research that might be a specific thing worth looking for Frederick, um, to exclude regions. 1:10:24 Um, I'm happy to go in and look, I it's like the one area I know the least about, I'm more comfortable with like the Facebook and the YouTube ads. 1:10:32 Um, I don't even know how to hop with this platform yet, but if you direct me there, I can go through it. 1:10:39 So if I open it up on the designer machine and, uh, and yeah, thank you. So I'll do that. I'll open it up on the designer cheap. 1:11:03 Got it. Thanks. Thank you, Tenure to the ABC restoration after they changed colors. So it's finding a specific booking states that they changed to try to give us more on that. 1:11:26 Yeah, sure. I guess there's a place to both usability testing out and the actual users site. Um, so, so far, like the workflow that I have is that, uh, um, it's like when it comes to finding like we specific booking stays to, uh, um, to look for, I, I, I just did it based on like the, basically on the day you want to add minus one is basically the bit, the day before. 1:11:55 Um, you want to, I guess like the day before the, um, on the day before that date, you want to add on that's what I had said, but, um, I guess like the issue is that it's just like focusing on the one specific, um, they want specific like, example.
1:12:17 So say like, if I want to, if I want, if I have Monday through Thursday and I want to add Friday because of sealant, insert, schedule uncertainty, um, what the data would, what the function would do is, uh, basically find the booking stays entry that has Thursday in it. 1:12:35 Um, but I think that I'm just looking at this one. So then, um, but, Um, I guess like one possible, so one possible solution is just to like, keep on playing, playing around with it, with like some of the tools. 1:12:50 Uh, and I guess like, so hold on. So hold on. I'm Sam, let's see if we all understand correctly, what's going on. 1:12:58 Um, you're having trouble finding in the database of the list of nights, uh, the correct night to change when a change request comes in. 1:13:10 Um, that's the basic idea. Um, yeah, that's the basic idea and it could be the source of the problem. It could be from two places, one the way it's designed. 1:13:21 So perhaps it needs to be refactored or it could just come with lack of bubble knowledge. Uh, Louis did, did you or Chad build, uh, this element, the, you know, Chad built the reservation, the foundations on the reservation system, as far as I know. 1:13:50 Um, So turn the dates. Yeah, that's it, that's a hairy one because you would need to update the reservation itself was the called the list each state, but it's definitely doable. 1:14:13 Um, I have, uh, I think we can, I don't know what this sprint right now, but I think we could go work on that one sound and we'll get you some, a follow up familiar with the reservation. 1:14:26 Yes. How are we going to, I think we need to align your schedule with Lou says that at some point and get a good chunk of time, like a three hour block potentially in the case you guys want to refactor or, or do this. 1:14:41 Um, I don't know if Louis has any three hour blocks, so maybe it'd be more of an hour block, two hours are usually going to work. 1:14:49 Right. So, um, do you think we'd be able to do that next week on like Monday or Tuesday as a, uh, as a one-off so that we've got to do it before usability testing? 1:15:08 Um, I think that account, um, I guess like, as of right now I scheduled pretty free, so I used to can do that. 1:15:16 Um, I just said, why it's one question I had regarding this was like, um, I wonder, like if we have to like change how booking stays, uh, data is entered because I realized that it, it, um, it depends on a lot of things like the, the number of weeks or like basically the week you have what needs to change, like either change how the data is entered or, um, something along the lines like that. 1:15:46 Yeah. Explain that to me. I didn't quite understand that at least the way that I understood it was like, how do we know which specific state should be updated in the database? 1:16:01 Because, um, so, so it's a list of, uh, individual stays, which have Knights inside of them. Is that right? Yeah. 1:16:13 And so, um, that list, uh, depending on how it works, uh doesn't you don't know what week you're on. Yeah, no, there's no, uh, yeah, you're right. 1:16:27 There is no way to know which week of your, which, which week of your stay you're on the, the only way we referenced days right now is by searching for that specific date. 1:16:38 I see. So say I, it, it does look like this has to be refactoring and it does look like a two-hour session is more appropriate than a simple, like bug search, I think can tracking it by what you said of, um, and maybe like one, the number of state you're in, I think it was your first day or second stage or third stage.
1:17:02 Um, couldn't couldn't but obviously, um, there's still going to be the rest of overlap depending on different cases, but it'll be a story. 1:17:11 It, but yeah, I mean, numbering the weeks, uh, is one way to do it. And maybe if the weeks are, if they stay stable, um, and we know which week we're changing, it'll work also in the, uh, weeks of the month splits. 1:17:31 So I think we should prioritize nights of the week splits, but whatever solution that we built, hopefully it'll also work or weeks of the month before. 1:17:43 So we used to have it because the things specific to weeks of the night, but because of the storm, because not because I won't know to the week, but because it will be to the night, it wasn't a constraint, but I removed the thing that was kind of linking those. 1:18:00 I could not figure out how to make it work for weeks of the night or weeks of the month. Yeah. 1:18:05 That's okay. Then the priority is nights of the week splints that my far resegmenting from hotels by far carries the greatest customer benefit. 1:18:24 Yes. But it can move on further. Yeah. Sorry, once you three, where were silver inspired talking about the, uh, so then the last one is also for exam, uh, how to create a simulator, the change notification on the <inaudible> side. 1:18:42 Um, yeah, normally we need from the app card to make the page 10 to bless, uh, so far is, uh, on <inaudible>. 1:18:53 Um, sometimes you want to expand it a bit, your operator. Um, yeah, so it's like we've gone into the usability testing side. 1:19:01 So, um, like I guess like, what I was stuck on is whether, because I'm not exactly sure how these ability tests do or reserve the dates, like, um, I don't want to force them to choose certain dates. 1:19:20 Like also it would just be like, micro-managing everything, but at the same time, I feel like we could tell them which book, which, uh, things like which days to book where like, which days to do the day changes on, uh, so that the boiler wasn't feeling truck. 1:19:39 So I guess like what I did so far, um, is that, um, on the <inaudible> side, um, because there won't be an angry interaction, I just automatically set it so that the, without the Ord license of the board will page, they'll see the notification. 1:19:59 And, uh, so far I just set it to like random dates, uh, sometime next week and the week after. But, um, I'm not exactly sure. 1:20:08 Uh, when you say random, do you mean hard-coded and arbitrary? Um, yeah. Hard in the arbitrary. Uh Yeah. That's, that's, that's a, that's a challenge that's going to need to be worked out. 1:20:27 And it's an architecture design challenge on how to do, um, how to do simulations without restricting users to be incredibly precise. 1:20:39 Um, and yeah, I think, I think that's going to require some, and this is partially why I think running this usability test is so important because it forces the issue and then we get to see, you know, are we really ready or should we be devoting a ton of time to that? 1:20:57 And I think the answer is we still have work to do that. Right. There's we just got to figure it out so I can brainstorm with you a little bit on, um, I can brainstorm with you on Friday that's between, um, 12 and one, Um, maybe, maybe even between 12 30, 1 30, but right now I told them one's pretty good. 1:21:23 It's 12 and one good for you. Yep. This would be good for me. Okay. Okay. Well, without further ado, uh, we are 10 minutes early.
1:21:36 Uh, does anybody have anything else to say? Okay, great. Well, I look, there's a substitute, which was exciting. And I didn't, I forgot to share that. 1:21:55 I don't know if everybody got a chance to listen to my today's, uh, customer calls, but I spoke to a customer who was so excited about this proposal. 1:22:09 There was sense insiders. This is such a great idea. He actually found us, he was still the signed up Atlanta one being when I connected with him, he was already halfway. 1:22:22 So now when they explained the teams of it needs to come up, what we do and how it works, he was so appreciative. 1:22:30 It was very inspiring. So I recommend if you don't plan to listen to all them, I can listen to them now and then. 1:22:42 Okay. Yeah. I think this was a successful team meeting, so we kind of knew all a smile. I wasn't still feeling Very impressive. 1:23:00 That's a thank you. It was very successful. Good. When are you going to find herself? Woo.
Okay, great. So yeah, tomorrow and you <inaudible>.