Team Meeting - 1 November 2023
0:00:00 Also, you are not engaging in the world. Right. I love that point of view. Thanks. That's it for me. I'll go next. 0:00:13 So, you're my defining yourself, the answer to that question. My question is very, very similar to what Igor just said. 0:00:21 I think, especially where I come from and how I grew up, it's very important to kind of have morals and kind of have a safe way of how you live life. 0:00:33 Not similar to other people but, I mean, for yourself. But, again, I also think and I've made people before in, in kind of family situations where, like Igor said, they define themselves so tightly. 0:00:48 That they actually can't get along with certain people. I mean, it's, it's actually a lot like, it kind of makes me, makes me think of the politics nowadays, you know, like, I'm a Trump supporter, I can't get along with you, I'm a Biden supporter, I can't get along with you, which, in my mind, is not 0:01:08 , not the way we should live life, you know, like, we each have strong views, but at the end of the day, you need to actually accommodate people to be able to live life. 0:01:21 That's, that's it for the philosophical question and then what, what was the first one? I made money. So, yeah, I guess also mowing lawns back in the day and, and things like that. 0:01:32 But my first official job straight out of school was actually working as a like an assistant manager at a, it's a kind of like a fast food place like McDonald's, but it's called Steers in South Africa. 0:01:49 And just the funny part about that is I think we worked like 60 hour weeks and the, the salary was literally like $40 a month. 0:01:59 So, so with the promise of becoming a real manager of the three months, but I think I literally quit. Like the second day before I would become a manager just because I got offered a better job but yeah that was not fine sorry for asking this but those $40 in South Africa at that time it was good morning 0:02:27 or bad morning? I would say at the time South Africa didn't actually I have a minimum wage back then but at the time I would say it was probably way down in the lower end. 0:02:42 But I was staying with my little grandma and I mean I didn't have ring to buy but it was more like a holiday job in the States I guess. 0:02:52 Yeah, because at some point in Venezuela $40 it was like I'm rich. I'm f****** rich. $40 USD was like that's your salary. 0:03:11 People were earning you five percent. Okay, well, yeah, crazy. Yeah. Well, yeah. Well, I can tell you that converting my Russian salary as engineer to U.S. 0:03:28 Dollars was fine. And it was not a bad selling. But go into the defining yourself. I kind of feel that directly opposite to what you guys were saying that it's limiting. 0:03:49 I feel that as more I understood who I am, easier for me was to find the right way in my life. 0:04:00 Other than just bouncing left and forth, oh here and there, it helped me to find my way and I never ever looked back and said, Good. 0:04:17 Well, I've done something I wish I wouldn't. I never, I cannot say that I always succeeded the way I wanted.
0:04:26 I had a lot of things which I tried and it didn't give me success. But looking back, I always think that I should've tried. 0:04:41 And only all accumulated experience of all those failures brought me success. You need to do the success later on. And just, you know, it's almost like a training in sport. 0:04:58 You try, you fail, then you create the skill and you succeed. The same in life. Now you fail, you understand and you succeed. 0:05:10 As far as the way I made my first money, that was working in my dad's company on this. Sawmill, he put on the sawmill and it was big wood trunks which were cut in the individual pieces. 0:05:36 Okay. So he put me there, I was, I was 14. It was my, Sorry, sorry to interrupt you real quick, Robert. 0:05:47 This is like the meme that is the doggo. Like, the doggo is super strong. And then the doggy with a cry, with a tear, and like all, all our experiences went, no, I trade cards, I move the loans, Robert won like, I throw huge trunks out of the woods. 0:06:07 Not out of the woods. But, ah, because my dad was general manager, he told the people who are working with me, he said make sure he's sweating all day long. 0:06:22 And, ah, I really did. It was my first time making money working during school break, during summer. And, ah, actually unfortunately it contributed to the fact that I got my cancer later on, because back in Russia there was no protection, I didn't have any masks, we were breathing that fine dust, and 0:06:51 when I got my sinus cancer, they told me it's because of the wood. I published created for fine wood, by fine wood dust. 0:07:02 Wow. So, but it's, so I'm sorry. Okay, well, really thanks for sharing, I actually enjoyed it, it's very good. So, let's now move to the standard to start the meeting. 0:07:19 So, on my previous task, I co-worked with Jaxx today, actually, on troubleshooting the posting, because of some driver who are not working, we didn't know exactly how to do it. They were not updated or what was going on there. 0:07:33 So yeah, we first updated Chrome and then the drivers, but yeah I also co-worked with Rover, like, these entire days with working on the leases flow. 0:07:45 And the management of leases, the internal page that we have to update the payment records and also submit the PDF of the documents once they are signed, so users on their guest can see all this information. 0:08:05 I also created a core API workflow that creates this payment record. This This is Luke on Bobo, now I think, before I was super overwhelmed or, scare of Luke's, but they are really easy to implement. 0:08:20 You just need to pull the same API workflow in the end, but with some conditions of how to stop Luke. 0:08:28 We already did this on the pricing list data type, but at that point, I don't know. Wasn't that involved on creating the workflow. 0:08:37 Now I created one for this payment record. I also create co work this morning with Robert on adding the house rules to the view spill space. 0:08:47 That's something that we. Didn't have there and kind of important to show. So we also changed the display of the configurations. 0:09:00 Like we were showing us a fixed icon that it was like a house. And now I'm showing the icon of the house rule that is on the database or the icon of the maybe if that is on the database and if the icon is empty, let's show the preset house.
0:09:19 So it looks pretty. It looks pretty. That's actually one of the, my commit task will be to assign jacks to update those icons. 0:09:31 Like some of the database have amenities and house rules that doesn't have icons. Or they have icons that does not match with the style of the other icons. 0:09:42 So that will be a session that you and I can co-work and update those icons. Anyway, I created this thing meaning document. 0:09:51 Robert and I created the, guest leases page is very similar to the host leases. So now, as soon as a proposal is accepted and the status is drafting lease documents, both of them, guest and host, now they have a page in which they will see, all the payment records and everything that is related to the 0:10:13 reservation that is allowed to happen. I fixed the host headers to now reflect the right count of leases before we were counting just proposals that the payment was submitted. 0:10:29 Now let's count for actual booking reservations created. I assigned Jack's approval project about changing all our input forms that do have a text beneath of it saying when the, when the input is actually required. 0:10:48 I think that will prevent issues of people not understanding what prevents them to continue. And also I remember when I started, he was assigning me the referral project. 0:11:01 Like, try to create a referral system or think about what things we can offer for referral. So I kind of, kind of start to dance to see what he can do. He can create or advance or he might. 0:11:16 And we also deleted host data from testers on the live version. Also with Jeff, for coming tasks I would like to design the next usability test. 0:11:26 I'm not sure for now I need that there would be any direction if we are going to work on the leases flow or we are gonna test the suggested proposal. 0:11:36 I think those are like the main projects we are doing right now on Bobo. So yeah, we'll be the next step from here. 0:11:45 As I said, assigned as the update of database, we will, on scheduling, we can determine when we can co-work on that, maybe tomorrow or today, since I won't be working with Robert in the afternoon, if you don't have anything to work on. 0:12:01 I want to work on already a schedule, we can do it. Yeah, just like, it's not the first thing but, yeah, we can do it. 0:12:08 Yeah, definitely one hour is enough for this. I want to work now that loops are easier. To create and I understand them really well. 0:12:19 I want to create a list of bucket dates of our reservation. This will be, I have now the conditions to compare when to stop the loop and yeah, I will want to work on that. 0:12:33 And keep working with Robert on the leases flow and management of this space. I think he has more comments about what are next steps as well. 0:12:43 Was holding me back. I think this week there's haven't been a lack of, lack of direction or guidance on. Priorities since we have these two projects of Bobo. 0:12:54 So yeah, some points I don't know exactly what to work on and we have, we need to have more initiatives or activities to acquire Why don't we go? Post. 0:13:06 I want to discuss them as a team. Like, what are the places we are going to look at right now? 0:13:13 We're just doing practice reach out. So I don't know if we need to restart the Cornish finder. Reach out and also spare rooms or if we're going to have a different strategy for post because from what I've seen, Jax have been acquiring good guests, like from his conversation at least one time per week
0:13:35 since he's doing those reach out, we have a new acquisition and these are people that submit proposals. So I think now we need to have at least two or three listings that are real that we can just suggest to these people that is the other holding me back yesterday Robert and I figured out that different 0:14:00 time zones will match the creation of data of for example moving date and one of the solutions is to create time zones, so instead of using the user's time zone, we will use the whole lander time zone, so we need to actually store the data. 0:14:25 That time zone, and be clear about that. So I found a couple of documentations about it, but I need to take a look. 0:14:34 The more context about this time zone thing is on the Boston Channel. And what's exciting? Well, for, the loop that I created from scratch is pretty good, and that spring is here. 0:14:47 So this weekend's I will be traveling to mountains and towns and rivers and water pools and everything. And yeah, pretty much for me. 0:14:58 Any comments or? I have a question about the priorities thing. Is it that there's too much stuff to do or not enough stuff to do? 0:15:08 Or is it that it's not clear what stuff's important? That one, the last one. There's no, I don't have clearance so what stuff is important. 0:15:18 Okay. Robert, do you want to go next? Yeah. Mmm I, over the weekend I worked on the accounting. I did the accounting for August and September. 0:15:36 I maintained daily cell phones and laptops monitored and responded to some messages, submitted the use of VSPL. Co-worked with FEDAC on list page and internal page association of KATAP payments and allow manual upload of information and manual upload of the PDF documents co-worked with FEDAC rules updated 0:16:04 credit card association form to explain better cell option co-worked with FEDAC updated periodic tenancy agreement, updated host pay-out schedule. As upcoming, I will continue working with cell phones and laptops, continue monitoring messages I will co-work with Jacques on his responses to the kegless 0:16:31 contacts. I will co-work with Frederick to bridge the acceptance of proposal, this payment stage, because at this point we now missing the stage where it's accepted but documents are not submitted for review and not, ah, not agreed upon because payments and information should be visible to the users 0:17:01 only when lease is actually signed. We need to add that stage in between. Was holding me back. Some cell phone hotspots seem to have internet connectivity issues. 0:17:20 And some laptops have start-up issues. I need to figure out how we can assign at the end of the agreement number a consecutive four-digit. 0:17:38 Count because Frederick seems to have an issue with that. What exciting, can you repeat, can you repeat again, the, the issue I'm having? 0:17:51 Remember we were talking about 00. 010002, instead it is 100200, it's not consecutive count. Yeah. What's holding me back oh, I said connectivity issues, what exciting pushing forward that we're just pushing forward despite all the challenges. 0:18:21 I am happy with the jacks, improving the situation with that's wonderful. We're also very excited that Jack wants to work on the bubble projects above and beyond his 35 hours per week, which is great. 0:18:38 And that's my stand up for today. Okay, so on previous tasks, so I've been increasing the posting. What I basically did is I looked at the historical figure and saw on average where you guys were I think it's about eight, eight posts a day.
0:19:01 So I've kind of set myself a goal for that eight posts per day. And then I think it's something like 13 a week that's allowed to be flagged or something just to at least get to that benchmark. 0:19:12 Not that. That's what we're aiming for. But just as a start then I did the weekly update on the posting data. 0:19:21 And it seems to be improving. I think you all saw that message that we've at least improved to a 13%. 0:19:28 Again, not really one. But, but at least we're on the up. With that I, I've been adding quite a couple of machines to the new app. 0:19:37 This, I think there's too many to put down. And just changing stuff around. We've got a better idea. I've also got a trade-off to discuss about this. 0:19:50 Then I also did some ice tea chats on the Craigslist. This is also, I think it's something that Fredric mentioned as well. 0:19:57 And I've also listed it as a trade-off that we can discuss. So, I took some time and went through the two case studies that Igor sent me. 0:20:06 Yeah, I think I've learned a lot from Brian in his absence as well from just watching all these videos. I must say, I think he was, he was really good at what he does just kind of keeping both sides of the coin happy. 0:20:25 And then I've spent a little bit of time on bubble again so I'm busy with that project that Fredrik assigned me. 0:20:33 And maybe tomorrow or maybe when we're done today working on the icons, I can just quickly show Fredrik where I am with that, then I learned how to delete house usability data and I'll be doing that after confirming with Fredrik after each series of tests we've, we've run. 0:20:54 So I managed to test this and make sure they get paid. I made some changes to some of the Google Sheets that involves the corrector's posting, it's just really organizing stuff. 0:21:04 So it kind of makes sense of where we are now. Again, I think there is something in the trade-offs regarding this as well. 0:21:11 Upcoming tests, so I'll be working on my bubble projects in this coming week. I'll be making some more changes to the Google Sheets just so it takes less. 0:21:21 It's time at the end of the day to get the posting going. I want to start the whole week's posting on Monday, doing the whole week's scheduled postings on Mondays. 0:21:31 So I'm now good for the rest of the week, especially as we're going to get busy over time, just reach out and things like that. 0:21:40 Then, yeah, I'll be checking the e-commerce study inbox daily and hopefully be getting more responses hosting my co-working with Robert on that and then I'll be up there. 0:21:52 I'll be checking the team daily on how the posting is going, what's holding me back. I think, yeah, it's, it's, it's also what, what Robert mentioned was some of the, like, what will happen sometimes is in the morning I put my list together and I'm ready to start. 0:22:09 Look! That the task and then like somewhere in between some of the machines goes offline again. So, so I think that's just something we need to look at. 0:22:20 Where am I now? Oh what's exciting? So, I've been, yeah, this, this. Despite, like Robert said, despite all the challenges that the Craigslist posting is actually exciting and I've been called to aim for trying to get there. 0:22:35 Then, yeah, just still learning new things every, every week. On various subjects is good, is good for me. And I think I'm learning more and more on what, how we achieve, what we're trying to achieve.
0:22:50 And then, obviously, travelling back to South Africa this weekend, I'm very excited about it, although I'm a little bit nervous. 0:22:57 Just taking the baby on the plane for the first time. So training, I didn't do any training on the, on the summary sheet, but I, again, I did go through those two case studies and made some comments on those Google Sheets. 0:23:13 And then reading, I need to get, I've achieved the goal of one book this month. But yeah, I think for the start, I need to do more, so I'll need to get back onto that. 0:23:25 Hopefully in between the baby sleeping and ice cream. Traveling I'll be able to catch up on some, some reading again. 0:23:33 So yeah, that's it for myself. Good. Thank you for doing that, Igor. Yeah. So I was in San Francisco. I set up three desktops. 0:23:45 Yes, three. Each has two screens, one laptop networking gear, clothes, et cetera, and stuff to cook with. I met with this guy named Jack, who is an AI CTO. 0:23:59 He's already on his Series A. So they raised like $30 million or something. And then Paul Paul came in to Splitlease and helped a long time ago for a little bit. 0:24:13 He is one of the guys who stood in my wedding. And Paul invited me to work at a co-working space with this place called WeFunder. 0:24:24 None of that is sufficiently material to really mention outside of this meeting. Like, there's nothing, This is all just the preliminary set-up stuff that takes a little while. 0:24:40 Yeah, about AI, what are your, your plans or what distribution of how we can implement AI. So there is, I have my own plans, but I don't have anything to suggest to you guys. 0:24:57 Me personally, I'm going to be creating basically advertising. And the advertising is going to have different like, right now, as I'm going to San Francisco, I'm kind of split leasing, and I'm meeting other people who want to split lease. 0:25:16 And those other people, they don't necessarily want to use split lease as a product yet. They could use certain kinds of tools, and they could use certain kinds of information. 0:25:27 And what I actually want to do is I want to have two views of the information that I write. One view is like in words, but then the other view is in words. And the other view is like just explain it to me in memes. 0:25:47 So it's just the same information, but in memes, and it's like a one minute read in memes, and like a ten minute read in words. Meaning it's got like a lot more... uh, in-depth information. And all I want to do is just see that people want to read this stuff. 0:25:59 Basically that they're using it, right? That it's not annoying to them to read it, they actually want to read it. 0:26:08 So that's how I'm using it. But there's a lot more applications later on. What does Jack do in AI? He creates chips. 0:26:21 He creates analog computers. So basically instead of There's this thing, the CPU, and then there's L2 cache, which is the first kind of memory around the CPU. 0:26:32 Instead of having L2 cache, he has a special kind of resistor. And in that resistor, if you send a type of signal, then that signal creates basically neural net weights. 0:26:45 And so instead of a digital computer calculating neural net weights, it sort of automatically calculates neural net weights, and it's really close to the CPU. 0:26:57 If you're fitting AI, this speeds it up by a hundred to a thousand times. So like a, who would use this?
0:27:06 Like self-driving cars somebody who's creating self-driving cars or like Microsoft or whatever, not us. It's not applicable to us, but his social value is applicable to creating the kind of buzz that then goes back into, you know, making split-lease well-known. 0:27:28 And a lot of founders need to use something like split-lease, especially founders who are in the physical space. So I'll give you another example of a founder that I met. 0:27:43 His name is, His name is Bob, actually. So Bob lives in Vancouver. And Bob created a new way to 3D print printers have a problem. 0:28:02 They have a manufacturing problem. Once you actually prototype in a 3D printer, you then it's very hard to manufacture at scale. 0:28:13 And so most people who use 3D printers use them only for the rapid prototyping portion, but not for the manufacturing portion. 0:28:21 And that basically it makes it the world's worst business model because you're helping people when they don't have any money and when they do have money they're leaving kind of like startups who don't, you know, have continuity bonuses or whatever. 0:28:39 It's like you're there for the part where it's R&D, but not there for the part where it's actually revenue. It's a way to kind of also manufacture what comes from the from the prototype. 0:28:56 But if you can imagine, just like Robert here is managing all of these laptops, he has like warehouses and 3D printers and whatever. 0:29:06 So he needs to be back in his main office as, as much as possible and he doesn't have perfect predictability on when he needs to be in San Francisco. 0:29:18 So for him, like a date changed to a- cool, isn't just like a thing that's like a nice to have, it's like a necessary prerequisite to even be able to set up a space. 0:29:30 And so there are some things that you can do for example, another thing you can do is all of these people, they're searching for these spaces by themselves. 0:29:45 They don't create a catalog and they don't share it with anybody else after they're done. But they may have found 10 to 20 spaces that work for them. 0:29:54 And then they could have shared them with other people who could have looked for those spaces once they already found a space. 0:30:00 Right? As like, ah, like it's nothing to them to share this stuff. Why would they do that? Well, partially why they might do that is they want to get a perspective on what spaces are or they might want to create community. 0:30:18 And for the case of founders, a lot of these people do actually want to create community and they want to be, like, hooked up with each other. 0:30:25 Because they can co co-create other kinds of opportunities. Anyway, the point is that very small little stuff here and there by just talking to the people who would actually need the product. 0:30:42 I have been able to draw a couple of plans on stuff that I might do and when I say AI, I just mean chat GPT for now and maybe something more serious later. 0:30:55 I am using LinkedIn Helper and I'll, We'll get to that in the later stages. Okay. I hope that was clear. 0:31:03 Yeah, yeah. Okay. Frederick and I worked on the suggested proposal UI. I gotta say it was a lot of Fredricks work and it looks pretty good. 0:31:15 So thanks a lot for that, Frederick. I met with a Facebook product manager. His name is Sheridan and Sheridan and I went over a usability test. 0:31:27 He suggested a couple of things. Some of them I got to, some of them I haven't even got to yet.
0:31:33 Two of the most notable things that he said is that sometimes it's good to test like just one page and keep it very open-ended and just see what they do. 0:31:46 And so he said that another kind of test that might be useful is if people come, like two or three people come to a test where the test happens not asynchronous, but synchronously. 0:32:04 And then you keep it very open-ended, and then you ask follow-up questions. So he suggested that we could potentially do another kind of test. 0:32:12 I said, like, instead of hiring, instead of hiring just one tester, we hire a couple of them and one will pretend host, one will pretend guest, and have them one hour, like, doing actions and see how the other sees the actions and so on. 0:32:28 No, I, I think this is even more simple than that. It's every- Everybody's a host, let's say, and you still have, like, simulated actions, but instead of going through a lot of the site, you just go through one page, and then you say, hey, you know. 0:32:48 So, what's the first thing you want to do, Amanda? What's the first thing you want to do, Gary? What's the first thing you want to do, Bob? 0:32:59 And then they all answer these very open-ended questions. I like to see, like, different perspectives. At the same time. Yeah, the thing is, in this particular type of test, which you guys aren't going to design first, I'm going to design it because it's very tricky. 0:33:17 Okay. In this particular type of test, you want to say as little as possible. Hmmm. You want almost everything to be elicited from the crowd. 0:33:28 Hmmm. And you want all of them simultaneously doing the same thing. Hmmm. And then, you know, we'll, we'll, I'm going to end up showing him that test, probably once we do it, and then having him comment on whether or not we orchestrated it properly. 0:33:51 Hmmm. So it's almost like a zoom in? Yeah, I mean, zoom is the digital equivalent of how they do it. 0:34:00 They do it actually in person. And the reason that they do it in person is that there is, at Facebook's level, there's some laws about not being able to record other people. 0:34:14 So they're actually, like the way we get to record, it's much more expensive for Airbnb or for whatever. They don't get to record because of some laws. 0:34:27 Okay, so anyway, we're very lucky that we get to do our usability tests the way we get to do them. 0:34:33 Okay, I bought four more iPhones. They have been delivered. Unfortunately, they're the, the way that their ends are, it doesn't, it doesn't actually fit. 0:34:46 They have like the new. My wife bought a phone, my wife bought a new phone last week and it's exactly the same thing, but it doesn't fit on the normal, it's any way you need to charge it. 0:35:00 Yeah, but they didn't send a USB plug, they sent a USB plug. Here's the thing, here's the thing, I accidentally bought like 12 USB plugs. 0:35:12 B to USB-C connectors by accident because I thought that I was actually buying a mute button for laptops so that I could give them to you guys and to Robert. 0:35:25 So it's actually not a problem, but it's, funny. I bought two more mint mobile plans. I am going to hook up all four of these phones I hope by the end of the day. 0:35:40 I bought the plane tickets. Molly's coming back with me to San Francisco on Friday. Yeah, it's nice. It's I spent two weeks without without her, so that was hard on both of us. 0:35:56 I'm probably with your partner. I mean, awesome, right? Well, I love. When I have faith or relationship, traveling is great. 0:36:07 Yeah, you're already married. Yeah, I'm already married. Yeah, no, I used to like it more when I was I actually, I really liked traveling.
0:36:17 I'll be honest. No, no, no, no, me too. Actually, I prefer on the companion, when the companion is your date or your partner. 0:36:27 I'll let you guys know, Robert can probably tell us, but I'll let you guys know on Monday how it went with a baby and a wife. 0:36:33 Okay, yeah, that's the most, that's the toughest. Yeah, so you know, it's very easy when you're buying these laptops or you're buying these phones or you're buying plane tickets or you're getting space. 0:36:48 Very easy to overspend. You know, overspending is always the easiest thing to do and we didn't. You know, so like, for example, my plane ride back was $15. 0:37:03 $15. Wow. It's like impossibly cheap, I mean. But, so there and back cost in total about $200. You know what, we just said something great. 0:37:21 If you remember that at some point we discussed that one of the benefits of doing a split list is that your plane tickets, they are cheaper because you are not struggling with loading. 0:37:37 In the, in the price per night, let's say I don't know how we're going to do the calculation, but you are maybe saving this money on loading ticket or something like that. 0:37:50 Well, that's exactly, that's exactly what we're talking about. Yeah, that's exactly what we're talking about. See ya. Okay, so this is what we're talking about. This is what we're talking about. We're talking about the San Francisco to Detroit ticket costs $500, but this flight costs $199. So it's $300 0:38:36 less, but it has the same first leg. And the only thing you can't do is check a bag. So now Molly books this flight to Cincinnati and in Detroit. 0:38:46 She just doesn't get on the other flights. That's called a skate flight. It's crazy that it works that way. I mean, because if you think about it like normal. 0:38:57 Logic, it should be more expensive, I guess. Right, right. So, you know, and there's, you don't want to do this particular move very frequently, but the point is that sometimes when you don't have bags. 0:39:12 You have much more flexibility and you don't have to pack and unpack. You get to save time. You get to, but it just depends on how much time you're going to spend at your target location. 0:39:24 Right. So if you're spending a legitimate amount of time it may be, makes sense to set things up. If you're only going to spend like a week, of course it doesn't make sense. 0:39:36 So hotels are perfect for vacation rentals because hotels can change their offer rate. They can do cleanings much easier. Right. 0:39:47 So it actually makes sense that a lot of people would stay in hotels over some period of time, but it doesn't make sense that the people who are multi-locals who are living in two places would live out of hotels because they're- you're missing a lot of the essential features of being able to live there 0:40:04 . So like- Like saving on your flights in the class, I mean. Yeah. Like Frederick said before I just expanded upon it. 0:40:15 Mentioning how the plane tickets are cheap. In the split leasing version is important. Yeah. I think it's a way to to make clear what are our benefits as well. 0:40:30 Not just part-time or- part schedule. That's a lot for some people, but yeah, saying that this will save you money. 0:40:39 No, it's very much. It's about the experience, right? When you're selling it, don't sell the parts. Sell the sizzle. Do not sell the parts. 0:40:50 Okay. And this is the hardest thing for both computer scientists and engineers is that, you know, and that you hear this advice everywhere from start with lye and Simon Sinek to Steve Jobs and whatever.
0:41:08 You, you sell the experience. That's what they're trying to buy. They're trying to buy a location freedom. That's what they want. 0:41:16 They want to feel like unencumbered, supported. Reliable, no surprises, you know, stuff like that. And so, but communicating internally, you know, we have certain kinds of benefits and there's like a way that we do that. 0:41:36 But like you said once we put, once we have the bones and we create the skin and we put on our face, our face sells the experience. 0:41:48 Hmm. Yeah. Okay. I set up. The second office in Michigan which has three standing desks and a small desk. I only have one chair. 0:42:01 It also has a door acting as a desk. This is some thing that Jeff Bezos did originally in Amazon. He realized that doors are cheaper than desks. 0:42:15 So he just bought doors. But for me, I, you know, I have this new house. So I just took doors off the rings. 0:42:23 I didn't buy. Any doors and all the laptops are sitting on one of those. I set up LinkedIn helper and I started to condition the market. 0:42:34 There's there's a framing of marketing called conditioning the market. And that's, you can see that in like Wolf of Wall Street or in other places. 0:42:47 That's where you start to lay the groundwork. Instead of saying that you want something, you create the desire in other people to want Thanks for watching! 0:42:57 That thing. Okay. And so that's called conditioning the market. So what is happening right now in my LinkedIn is that instead of going for hosts first or for guests first, what I'm going after is my second connections. 0:43:16 And what's, what's happening is I visit their profile. I wait until they visit my profile. This is all aided by a computer, but I visit their profile. 0:43:26 I follow them and they're a second connection of mine in New York. Then they look at my profile. Then I send them a message that says, I've been looking at your profile. 0:43:40 If you find my profile as interesting as yours, let's connect. And so you don't send a message unless all of those things happen. 0:43:50 And then 15 days later, I clear messages. So if it's happened 15 days ago, and I do only 250. So it does it every day for me. 0:44:06 And this creates kind of like people who are interested in helping me and who have mutual friends. So that I when I go after someone else, I can do it. Somebody they, uh, can vouch for me. They can say, Oh yes, I know Igor, Igor and I talked. 0:44:25 Right. And so this is just kind of conditioning the market for later posting and doing other stuff. Okay, I want to build a monitoring system with a heartbeat for machines. 0:44:39 What does that mean? A heartbeat is where somewhere some machine is waiting for another machine to like, Every minute, say, hey, I'm alive. 0:44:52 Hey, I'm alive. Hey, I'm alive. Then if it misses a minute, it's like, okay, that machine is offline. And so it marks it as green until the machine doesn't receive a ping. 0:45:06 Then it marks it as red. And so this is a kind of very basic monitoring system that can tell you whether or not a machine is active and when it goes offline. 0:45:19 And then you can attach another word. Say to a channel, maybe Advent Support or whatever, that when a machine goes from online to offline, say, machine wins offline. 0:45:30 Something like that. And then we can figure out kind of when and how machines go offline. Instead of discovering it for yourself when you're looking for the machine.
0:45:42 That's one possible. Yeah, I think that will help a lot. Yeah. And then I think there might be some more settings to make it so that less machines go offline. 0:45:56 But another thing is just I bought more cords and my cousin brought back even more chargers. So we probably have like 10 to 12 more chargers. 0:46:09 So we'll be able to keep all the machines plugged in. I need to get even more laptops back. We sent some to Boston and we have some in Canada. 0:46:21 I need to budget for San Francisco. So there's like a good way of doing it. and then I want to build those features that even I would want to use in the mobile app. 0:46:37 And so people like a freemium version. Guests don't need a full marketplace. They can just use something to help them find a place whether or not Splintless is going to earn revenue on it. 0:46:53 Not early. What do you mean by that? Recommend places that are not on our site? Yeah, basically. They can recommend places to each other. 0:47:07 Yeah. Oh, oh, like internally they have connection wheel guests and they can connect and recommend between them. They can post places that they're interested in and get comments from other people who have, who have lived, who, who are multi-locals. 0:47:28 On how they would evaluate that place. I like it. It's a great idea. You know that there's a place called block something. 0:47:37 I don't know. They originally sell those levels pieces of Lego. Okay. And they invented a market place in which you can connect with other people that are users of this place and they can sell their Legos instead. 0:47:55 Like if you already sell a product just squishes the more you can. So giving the option to a user of themselves just and communicate and recommend other places. 0:48:08 That's good. Yeah, thanks. I was thinking like everybody who contacted me, they See you next week. Actually, they wanted my opinion, especially after I told them that split-lease won't provide anything. 0:48:23 At first, they're kind of like, okay, I don't want to be sold, right? But then they come, they get some information and then they're like, okay, well can split-lease help me. 0:48:33 So I think the original thing is like, okay, I, you know, I don't want to be sold, but as soon as they've been told, they're like, well, okay, then split-lease help me further. 0:48:44 So yeah, I mean this is a way to get early. Users and to spread stuff. And I think we're finally at the point where it's really important for customer acquisition. 0:49:09 Yeah. The war in the Middle East is concerning. Well it's exciting. I've been able to catch up on my reading. 0:49:16 My new house is almost totally set up and San Francisco is almost totally set up. So I have two co-working spaces and my office and I tried to play around with some chat GPT plugins and they're really cool. 0:49:33 I have one that allows you to connect to the internet to get newer results. And then there are some that can create memes for you. 0:49:42 But I'm having a little bit of trouble hooking them up. For my training I want to do memory looms in Google advertising in Craigslist and for book reading I read the whole book trailer. 0:49:58 And the Phoenix project which is about DevOps or developer operations yeah, thanks. The question is you are now let's go to the trade-offs for this big meeting. 0:50:15 I see that Jax already wrote two meetings. Yes. I think we, I think, sorry, yep, sorry for interrupting. Oh, I think ours is almost similar. 0:50:28 So the first one I've got is just wait, wait, don't start yet. Robert Ebert just take your time too. Oh, sorry.
0:50:40 Yeah, let's wait. For five minutes, I go to the bathroom real quick. Yeah. That's what I thought. No, I'm not going to say that. 0:51:12 No, I'm not going to say that. I'm not going to say that. But that's it. Yes. We'll keep going. We'll keep going. We'll keep going. I'm not going to say that. We'll keep going. We'll keep going. We'll keep going. Cheers. Cheers. That was, that was very cool. 0:51:37 Even Russian being spoken live. Yeah. It sounds like Portuguese, right? And that's actually a little bit I am You I've actually spoken to some Portuguese people here that for some reason, I don't know I would but a lot of the Portuguese actually can speak Russian for some reason in our region. 0:51:57 I don't know whether it's, People that came here before, what the reason is but the I say Russian is actually easy for them to learn to speak and I'm like I'm stuffed on both. 0:52:12 Wow. Impressive, I wouldn't guess that was the meaning. We'll see you in the next video. Either and I couldn't. Very different language. 0:52:21 Yeah, yes. And it's something that only happens in Portugal because Brazilians, they don't know anything about the producers. I like my, like, a lot. 0:52:32 Brazil. Thank you. And they are like brothers, but like us actually. So I think there are a lot of Brazilians here and there are a lot of Brazilianians there. 0:52:45 Yeah, they don't know anything about Russia actually. Please. It's obviously also my neighbor is actually Brazilian and there's a lot of Brazilians here. 0:52:55 Because I think the country and while they share language first of all, but yeah, they also share a lot of history. 0:53:01 So yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Thank you. Okay well, let's start with your first read-up. Yes, see what we've got. Okay. 0:53:11 Like I said, I think mine is mostly about posting and re-charts and stuff. But so one thing I want to ask you guys I'm not 100% certain yet what I can do and what I can't do, and is it possible, or you might be the face person to answer this, is, is it possible to, from me to go in and split the machines 0:53:33 again? What I want to aim for is Thanks for watching! If the machines that's at Robert's place on one up and the machines that's everywhere else on a different path, the reason I'm asking for this is, it'll be much easier for me than to tell Robert, okay, Monday piece on the machines, Wednesday piece 0:53:52 on the machines. I hope that makes sense to you guys and it's, I think I'm at a stage where I'm capable of doing that all on my own without meeting up the network. 0:54:04 So if I can get permission from you guys, I would like to actually go and do that as a, as a small project. 0:54:18 Yeah, maybe, maybe. Robert was asking me to bring all of the machines here. Thanks for watching! They would all be managed in one central location. 0:54:32 So I my original thinking was, you know, there, They're, they're. It's also best if in some sense, like there's always some machines that are available. 0:54:52 Okay. So that they're not all in a single location. . . Yeah, yeah, yeah. So I just have to think about that. 0:55:01 I'm actually not sure. Yeah, it makes it a good trade-off question, but I'm actually not sure. Okay. And then I just, I spotted that question, what I would like to do then is renumbered then so you can easily see because you spend, I mean, it's small things, but at the end of the day when you get very
0:55:16 busy, busy is going to count towards your time. And small things like other machines are numbered. I would then also want to change and say I need 200 and up on the one up so you can easily see We'll see you next week. 0:55:29 We'll see you next week. We'll see you next week. We'll see you in the next one. We'll see you in the next one. We'll see you in the next one. Okay, there's this machine or whatever. 0:55:31 I've asked Friedrich before as well with it and I've done some research on it, but it doesn't seem to be possible that you can see the actual machine's name on Selenium Grid. 0:55:44 But it doesn't look like it's possible. Okay, yeah, then my answer is yes. If you have multiple reasons for redoing this project, yeah, I think it's going to become important. 0:56:02 And what we're doing is we're trying to improve, improve, improve just a little, little by little every week. But that means that at some point stuff's going to get really hard, right? 0:56:16 And then so all of this re-organization is really valuable. Yes. I'm just thinking of like you told me a couple of weeks back is to make it easier at the end of the day so a person that comes in understands it much easier as well. 0:56:32 Thanks for watching! Okay, so I'll take on that. I'll do it in such a way that it doesn't influence outdated posting. 0:56:40 Maybe take the one that I'm not posting with on that particular day and do it that shouldn't be too long to do that. 0:56:48 Thank you very much. Numbering, I think the renumbering is good. You need to do changes on the script itself. Yeah, it's on the config file and also on the stereo fire network. 0:57:01 Yeah, so replace the subject. You will need to read for everything. Can you explain me again? But real quick, what was the other part about the all the machine in the same place? 0:57:15 No, no, no. So what I want to do is I think from from for the company, You it's good that we have like eager say machines in different locations because then at least you've always got like one kind of app that you can use. 0:57:31 But what I would want to do at the moment, these machines to give you an example at the moment, these machines are that's on two different apps. 0:57:40 And what I want to do is all the machines that says Robert's physical office, I want to put on one app. 0:57:45 So that means Robert only needs two that ping to cell phones. Say for example, Mondays, Wednesdays, Fridays or whatever the case might be. 0:57:53 But it's just going to be easier to actually sing off one less than say the system machines for today. And so I hope that makes clear. 0:58:04 Let me ask you a question because you guys talking about something which I'm not really understanding fully. So you're saying that one app goes one day and another app goes another day. 0:58:18 Is that how it works? Yes, yes. So all these machines are connected to a certain app at the end of the day. 0:58:25 And at the moment we've got two labs that off of the side points or go off of the machines is up one off of the machines is up two. 0:58:34 And we're using a different app every day to post and I'm facing that to keep it as random as possible. 0:58:41 Well, in that case I do feel that what I got said about having it in the in the spread between those transcripts would be probably better because if something goes down in one location, you still have something something that I didn't do nothing because yeah so so what Jock is suggesting isn't that we
0:59:12 bring all the laptops to one location you're suggesting that we organize them digitally in the way that they're organized physically so that when you look at them digitally you get a kind of one-to-one correspondence to location and. 0:59:29 Thank you. But that means, didn't that means that it will operate those machines in one location not every day but randomly rather than. 0:59:45 . Every location has something every day. That's what I must. Well, we don't have that level of control to be able to load balance between here and other locations, but we do have a form of improvement to be able to move from the way it's disorganized right now to a more organized digital thing. 1:00:14 And so what jocks literally just asking for is to organize them digitally. Without moving it physically. Okay. Sorry, that's from database like to describe it. 1:00:23 Organize it digitally, not physically. Yeah, okay. I guess I guess you didn't understand what I was referring to. I was referring to the not how it's organized. 1:00:39 I was referring to how it's used. So you wanted more randomly. No, what I was saying is, based on what you describe, my understanding is that on one day you fire up and only my machines are working. 1:01:02 On another day you fire up and Thanks for watching! Machines in eager place while working. Is that correct statement? Yes, that is the idea but remember we are still using different machines at your office. 1:01:18 I understand that. What I'm saying is Thank you for watching. Let's say my internet goes down. Now before if you're using it from several locations, if one goes down you still have couple machines available. 1:01:37 If you're recognizing the way you are saying. No, Robert, just know. Just stop. And also you have two internets and you have Wi-Fi sticks. 1:01:48 If you're one internet goes down, you just put it in a Wi-Fi stick to Thank you. Okay fine. And you have all these laptops and stuff. 1:01:58 I just, I just don't think we need to stay on this particular trailer. Fine. Okay, I mean, yeah, the second one, I think 3B, mine and yours. 1:02:08 Oh Almost the same day. I just wanted to chat about those three charts and if Igor has decided whether we should ramp that up or or what the case might be so I'm sorry. 1:02:21 I'm sorry talking about Craigslist, but my personal opinion is that Thanks for watching! What you want to do is keep improving the process on the guest side. 1:02:31 I know it feels horrible not to be able to match, but my personal opinion is that you need five guests for every host and you need something. 1:02:42 Like later when you start five guests for every host, but then later it becomes more three to one or something like that. 1:02:50 And so what I would rather see is kind of like five live guests one host. Okay. And then. End. Ten and two. 1:02:59 Yeah. 15 and four. Okay. 20 and five. Okay. And level off on 60 and 20. Yeah. And then it goes for one because. 1:03:15 You're saying, sorry, so you're saying that before focusing on host, we need to first have more traffic of guests a week. 1:03:24 I think so. And I think we need to give them single player mode tools. Tools. So that's single player mode tools. 1:03:34 So single player mode is where for example, a bar. A bar has hosts and guests. Let's call the hosts live in and the guests met.
1:03:47 Okay. And when the bar is there, the bar is the marketplace. When the bar is there, what they may do is they may have a girl's night. 1:03:58 And at a girl's night, what they may do is they may. Give free drinks or very discounted drinks. And so that's kind of single player mode. 1:04:09 You don't need the other side of the marketplace in order to enjoy the marketplace. You don't need the other side yet. 1:04:16 And part of the reason for this is because the optimal experience for a host is that they get matched, like, very quickly. 1:04:32 I think a guess. Thanks for watching! It may have two to three weeks while they're searching, but a host will give you, like, two to three days. 1:04:40 So, the host side of the market is both more impatient and the customer acquisition cost is higher. Bye! So that if we end up, I think what it is is that it hurts to not have sufficient flow and to kind of fail. 1:05:04 Thank you. Until you succeed, it sucks not to be able to give these guests any real hosts. That feeling is horrible because it's like you kind of feel like you're doing a bad job. 1:05:16 But what I think will be the most successful and this is me personally you guys can have a different opinion and then we can commit and we can disagree and commit. 1:05:28 Meaning this is not a rule. It's just my feeling about this. Is that we need more guests before we get hosts? 1:05:37 Thanks for watching! So that we can really close the hosts by saying look you got a proposal right away at your top work. 1:05:44 Look I think for me personally at this stage, I mean I'm looking forward to You working with Robert on that tomorrow. 1:05:56 But I think that's actually, it'll be good for me to explain more, although to me that's just that, that now that you've, you've said this it makes more sense, making sure kind of your guess side is your understanding. 1:06:09 The point was your guess side before, before going to the other side. If you're like my ability to interact with the guests and to, to attract guests or, or better before I start spending time on the other side. 1:06:24 I would say. Thank you. Guys that we probably can go back to the practice we did before when if we first of all start calling guests when they Thanks for watching! 1:06:40 Contact us rather than just send them called emails. Okay. And when we get obtained more information about what they need start posting ads for the specific guests, advertising specific guests. 1:06:57 Yes, looking for the host. So if you do that, then if host responds, we already have a particular guest looking for this particular place. 1:07:08 So it's a success for the host. Yeah. Yeah. Thank you. Yes, tonight I already did a couple of photos of the nature. 1:07:18 I submitted very unique guest details prior to my host. Yeah. So, yeah. Thank you. Project, do you have an alternative opinion on a street child? 1:07:34 Kind of what Robert said. I think we could do both in parallel. Okay. That sounds good to me. Mm. So, yeah, that's it. 1:07:46 That's it from my side. Thanks, Chris. Yeah. Yeah, I was my trade off was similar to Jax, but it's if we should start also footage by their spare rooms and other sources.
1:08:00 But, . Looks like, for now, these spreadlists are the better one, I guess. Like, the posts, they keep reaching out for hosts on spreadlists and do this kind of post when we have a particular guest, I think. 1:08:17 Last time we did last time we did one of the- I used- I used- why is it not a- . Oh, because I used that bean tablet. 1:08:38 That guy that signed up. So we actually did it the way that we discussed now because we used bean to post on add-on Craigslist to a trade coach. 1:08:47 Yeah, we did John Schoon and Ben Chaplin. So I think we could do that because you do those postings each time that we receive a new guest post on behalf. 1:09:04 We hope. And see if we find a host interested. And the other one is kind of what's said of blocker of, like, in my mind, like the next step or thing that should work on bubble. 1:09:21 This is how the guest payment is gonna be. Like, when they click on initial payment right now, that's the part where all testers have failed and we don't have a good UI there. 1:09:35 We are asking just for a step. I hope you with a credit card, no one's gonna do that. I know that right now is just for testing purposes and it's also something that we need for a voice crowd, but I think we need to do another thing. 1:09:51 I think that's not natural. No one ever gonna take a selfie with their credit card. So yeah, like I don't know if that's the next step that I should be working on or what is the next, what to build, what to test, what to remove. 1:10:09 I think we can go and instead of asking selfie with credit card, we can ask Thanks for watching! Selfie with the ID if we can verify that the person who and that's what Airbnb does today. 1:10:35 They ask for a person to do the picture using the computer, right? It. When they're doing it so it takes a little selfie or they ask to provide the selfie with the with the picture with the ID so if there is a selfie with the ID and we know that the person on the ID is the same person on the credit card 1:11:06 . The name on the ID is the same as the name on the credit card and the picture on the ID is the same. 1:11:13 The same as the picture of the person. We kind of verify the same thing. Okay. So with the ID and the, you know, the selfie with the ID, I think should come reviews to the. 1:11:27 Bye! To the initial payments to missions. I've done a couple of Airbnb and I think I just include my credit card without submitting the selfie on that flow. 1:11:41 But not on that flow. Selfie with the ID goes when. They set up the account. Yeah, it's for new accounts not for once where you already have a review. 1:11:51 Yep. And we can verify that if it is not there, we cannot enforce it from the beginning, but if they do it from the beginning, it begins as great. 1:12:18 If they don't, we can allow them to come all the way through until you need to first complete this section in a bit of opinion, so be yourself without any patience. 1:12:31 Okay. Mm. So yeah this is also because of I suppose you have been busy with problems here, but we have been working on this Lisa's flow Lisa's building and having her feedback from you. 1:12:50 So I'm not sure if it's because you haven't seen it, it's because you think we should be working on other stuff or, Well, yeah. 1:13:00 I think it's because of trust. You know, you have to get to a point. Or not. Where you trust what other people are doing. 1:13:08 And there's two kind of frameworks. Do you build, this is back to when you're defining yourself. Is it limiting or not limiting? 1:13:19 Actually, I kind of like this. Okay. Bye. It's there's two frameworks. Do you build what you know will be necessary for sure?
1:13:29 Or do you build what you don't know and you need feedback on? Right? And so sometimes what you want to do is you want to build what you don't know so that you can get to what you do know. 1:13:44 And sometimes you want to build what you know but you don't know you need right now. Okay? And so I think what's happening is you're building something that you know we need but you don't know that we need it right now. 1:13:57 So in essence it doesn't, it doesn't solve the system problem because it's not where the bottleneck is. So because it's not where the bottleneck is, it's not where the value gets created. 1:14:08 Bye! In another very real way you can say well one day I'll need it, right? So the question is how far away is that day? 1:14:18 If that day is very, very far away and you're saying one day I'll need it and it's very far away then the likelihood that it's good work is probably not that high. 1:14:29 But this seems to be kind of like a next step. So I would say it's squarely where I don't need to look at it. 1:14:37 I kind of trust you guys but I'm really We'll see you in the next one. Part work on the bottleneck and I consider the bottleneck to be customer, easy or customer acquisition. 1:14:49 Yeah. So that's why I haven't looked at it and it's because of all the setup costs and it's because of my focus and customer acquisition. 1:14:56 The first is the question. It's a great fusion. And that's the first one. Yes. And on the good side, it's because I trust you guys. 1:15:00 So I trust that you guys are building stuff that won't be necessary. Good. Is there something on bubble that I can do with Rover to help on customer acquisition? 1:15:13 See you soon. Oh, we just keep. Yeah, so basically I don't know if you guys know, but you know, I raised a little bit more money to increase our runway just to make sure that we have enough computers, enough money for advertising, enough money just to like get to the next. 1:15:29 Thanks for watching! And while all this was happening, I kind of burnt out a little bit. So we're in a fine position, but I was a little bit burnt out for a couple of days. 1:15:40 So what's happening is I have some ideas in my head. But they're not down on paper anywhere. And I wouldn't be able to verbalize them instantly right now. 1:15:52 But the answer to your question is I'm hoping that as soon as I get these phones and laptops going, that the next Thanks. 1:16:00 Thing I get to is saying which tools I think could be necessary and how we would advertise and sort of like use AI for them. 1:16:12 Because I do have some ideas about there a ton Thanks for watching! One of places are are offering are making people return to work, okay? 1:16:22 Ton of places everywhere, right? And the interest rates are 8% now. They used to be like 2%. So the ability to buy or Thank you for watching. 1:16:33 Move. Just isn't there. This is the same thing that happened that happened in the previous cycle, you know, 20, 30 years ago is happening again right now where people have to drive. 1:16:44 Now are we going to be able to capitalize on that with revenue right away? Maybe no. But are we going to be able to provide tools for people who need split leases and who will learn the verb split lease and who will then become? 1:17:05 We will become a trusted source for them and start on the plywheel where they know that they want to interact with us and then because what happens with all of these places is that at some point it stops working for someone either the guests or the host at some point.
1:17:21 And but the pattern, they need the pattern for many years usually. So the answer to the question is, yes, I'm going to get there. 1:17:34 I'm going to get there as soon as I possibly can. A little bit behind, but I feel good about everything. 1:17:40 Okay, so this is about that. And it's, it's, now there's a really interesting question. Thank you for watching. Should we make the people who want those free tools, download the mobile app rather than have access to it on our website? 1:18:05 The, here's where the balance is. . It's harder to download a mobile app. But once you've had somebody download a mobile app, the likelihood that they will stay and keep using it is way higher. 1:18:22 So if you have a lot of It's been a lot of fun. It's kind of like a, gym membership. A gym membership, you don't want to let people just come and go as they please. 1:18:32 Okay? You want to wait until they really want the gym membership. Make them paying activation fee. And then make them pay monthly like automatically. 1:18:40 And then, And then if they get introduced, they kind of get trapped in your system. Right. And so, you know, I don't want to use the word trap, but you see what I mean. 1:18:50 What I mean. We want it to be sticky. If we're going to give them value, and if we're not going to charge them anything for it, then, You know we want to know that they are willing to use their time to actually like access. 1:19:07 And so maybe if they're willing to download it, they're also willing to answer a couple of questions and those couple of questions can create kind of like an automatic feedback loop of how we can bring them back in. 1:19:20 Either through the back store, through email or both. After they set up their mobile app. So that's really the question the mobile app comes with. 1:19:29 Thanks for watching! It's a higher cost for them and a higher cost for us because Google Play, if you remember, remember how many times Google Play was holding me back? 1:19:37 Yeah, four or five. Google Play, Google Play is like the enchanted project of the leads. Everyone that told you. The project goes out. 1:19:49 Is it stuff we couldn't conform to? Their error message, their error message makes no sense. . . The Google Play error message basically says something like, you know, you you gave us a new version that didn't ask the right questions or something. 1:20:12 And it works for Apple, just fine. And then you go back and you try to resubmit it and they're like, I thought I told you you're not asking the right questions and we're like, what are they? 1:20:24 And they just don't reply really well. So I think what I need to do is like literally find someone who works at Google. 1:20:32 Like literally, you know, and then be like, look, I have this error message and I don't know how many people have it, but it's horrible. 1:20:41 Yeah. Okay. I like it. This part about the tool for sharing and comment. Thanks for watching! I think it looks like ready. 1:20:52 Like, it could be kind of a super ready for people commenting and recommending spaces. Yeah, exactly. We just need to figure out, we need to figure out what's in everyone's best interest. 1:21:05 Right? Like, you don't want to share a place with people who are still looking for spaces. You want to share your places and make them available to only to people who aren't looking for spaces who are already in a space.
1:21:21 Or who could give who are trusted advisors on this sort of thing. Right? And but when you're finished and you've already booked a space then it would be much easier for you to just all the spaces. 1:21:36 Thank you. Thank you. This is you didn't book make them available to be seen by everybody who's looking for spaces. 1:21:41 Right? And so you know, Reddit, it's just like you said, but it's about the rules. Do the rules make sense? 1:21:48 Do the rules make you want to share? Do the rules make you want to comment? If the Thanks for watching! The rules are right, then it's fun to engage if the rules are wrong, then you're ruining your own strategic benefit. 1:22:02 Yeah. Okay. Let's do it. Did we go real quick? Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Okay, thanks guys. Yeah. I ducked. I will see you second session one. 1:22:25 Is that okay with you? Yes, yes. I'll let you know. I must just quickly. I'm on the edge of starting the posting for today. 1:22:33 I've got all the machines online that I want. So I'm just, I'll let you know as soon as we can. 1:22:38 I don't, if I'd go with you. Yeah. Thank you. See you in a minute. I will go. I will go back at 1.15 EST. 1:22:46 Okay. Okay. See you guys. See you. See you. Thank you.